 even though it has been a year, when enzo walks too near noa she takes it as a threat. females are very much personal space driven, and when other animals enter that personal space, when it is not initiated by her, they are very prone to teach the intruder manners. cats are very quiet creatures, so i feel sorry for poor enzo who most likely doesn't hear her or even know she is there. a muted bell would be good, something that won't drive you crazy. getting her spayed is definitely a good idea, hormones can drive cats to excitability which in turn turns into irritation. it takes up to 6 weeks for the hormones to leave the body, and now she may be driven to attack because she is hurting/traumatized by the spay surgery. try to redirect enzo from her when he gets too near, do not try to physically pick noa when she is intent on attacking, as you have found out. tell her no loudly and firmly and get a stiff piece of cardboard to place between them and to use to herd her away from him. if absolutely necessary grab her by the loose skin on the back of the neck and lift her front feet off the ground, this instinctively quiets them. hissing and swatting, low growling, are not a 'bad' thing for noa to do to teach enzo not to come near, a full out attack should not be tolerated, and she should be herded into a quiet room for 5-10 minutes to calm down. i agree she should have a high up place to escape to so she can observe the dogs but be out of reach, that should help. give both lots of love, they are both traumatized in their own way, but enzo must be protected from injury. good luck, keep us posted on what works!  
 in the end of february i ended up adopting a cat. we never had much but the normal problems with him. on sunday i brought in a new cat. a female. she is about his age. from what the owner showed us and from what we saw, she is a sweet cat. very playful. yesterday upon her arrival, obviously she was very frightened. she stayed literally the whole afternoon under some cupboards. when she saw an opportunity she went under the sofa. the whole afternoon and night...she didn´t eat anything. she came from a house of 12 other cats.  that sunday, the interaction with forrest and jenny wasn´t that good. he approached her o many occasions but always backed away. he even hissed at her. i was told this is normal cat behaviour. the animal showing that he is in charge.  this morning she woke up still under the sofa. i tried to get her out by lifting it slowly. she lept like keanu reaves in the matrix. she even walked on walls. she ran under the kitchen sink and stayed there. forrest on another occasion, hissed at her again. i decided to separate the two so she could try to relax. i divided the house. i went out to buy some cat litter. i returned, jenny had moved. now she was in a small utility room connected to the kitchen. i decided to leave her food and water and her litter box with her litter in it. i closed the entrance with 2 boxes so forrest can´t get to her and make her even more stressed.   i would really appreciate some help. is what im doing a good idea? what else can i do? i thought about trying to play with her slowly. she still hasn´t eaten and it is really bothering me. thanks a bunch!  
 hi and welcome to the cat site! your new cat sounds like she needs to get acclimated to her new home. her entire territory changed instantly overnight when you took her from her last home and brought her to live with you - it was an amazing thing to do, and in time i'm sure she will be happy living with you and forrest. at the moment though, she needs some space of her own to get used to things.  first, i would make sure she has a room to herself, and have no further meetings between the two cats. then, make sure she has appropriate hiding spots - hopefully not inside a cabinet or somewhere where you can't even reach her - and let her be. give her food, water, litterbox and toys in this room, and do visit a few times per day. when you visit, walk calmly and speak softly, talk to her or read to her. try not to move her from her hiding spots. after a while, she will see you as a friend and come out on her own.  in the meantime, use some towels or blankets that she lays on and have forrest smell those. this will get him used to her scent so she will feel less like a stranger to him. when she is feeling less scared, do the same with his scent on a blanket to have her smell.  cat introductions can take a while, especially if both are adult cats. we introduced a third cat last year, and it took our resident cat gohan about 7 months to stop chasing her. now they can coexist peacefully. take your time, only go as fast as the most reluctant cat and be patient and calm. hissing, chasing, growling and some swatting are all normal. sounds like no major fights so far, which is a great sign.  here are two great articles to read about helping your new kitty and your current kitty adjust.  urgent. introducing a new cat to the house. how to fix an unsuccessful cat introduction  also, make sure that both cats have been neutered or spayed .. cats that are intact will make this much, much harder. good luck, and feel free to ask any questions, or just share stories and pictures!  
 i would let her stay under the sofa right now and try and put forrest in another room. then coax her out with treats or let her come out herself over time. it could even help build her confidence a little bit. i agree to avoid freaking her out like last time.  
 i think its a good idea to separate them for a while. she needs a separate safe room that forrest can't get into. even though he isnt agressive, she is still feeling threatened.   i say go ahead with your plan to feed her and give her some time. then maybe give her a nice room to herself and keep the door closed for a little while. you should go in and vist and play with her, but wait before letting forrest in there.  
 this evening forrest chased her when i think she was trying to get out from under the sofa. she was back in the utility room. this time i barracaded the doorway higher than the last time. about 10 mins ago i heard some meowing. guess what? she is back under the sofa. i don´t get it...she thinks the space under the sofa is a safe place. back in the other room...forrest wouldnt get in....why would she try to leave if theres food, water and a litterbox?  
 i think cats decide where they are safest based on cat logic ... if you want to keep her in the utility room what about two baby gates stacked on top of each other? it may be more secure.  
 our cats can jump pretty high when motivated ... at least 7-10 ft if they are really wanting to get up there.   while it's not ideal for her to stay under the sofa, as long as she is eating and drinking and using her litterbox and not super stressed it is possible it could work. give it a try, but maybe also put a cardboard box or some other hidey place nearby in case she gets adventurous?  i would also recommend not having forrest have access to her if you aren't home ... forrest will be ok for short term in a bedroom (he won't see it as punishment and they mostly sleep during the day) and you don't want any accidental injuries. we started closing olive in her safe room because she would explore at night and we woukd wake up to hisses and growls abd the occasional panther scream. one time shs tore a nail in a panic, so even if forrest doesn't intend harm it could still cause some setbacks.  
 thank you guys for your help!  things have got much better. i managed to move her into a room. she has a hiding place if she wishes (a wardrobe), she has food, water and her litterbox, and forrest has no access to her. today she ate by my side. i pointed to her food a couple of times and she ate it. i pointed to water a couple of times and she drank it. i check on her a couple of times...she comes out happy with cat hugs.  
 lordy, you have a huffing cat lol i'm kidding which (slight thread hijack) reminded me of that from the other end of things    confessions of an american cat huffer  oh, by the way if you want a mod to delete that duplicate post (if they haven't already), click on the little black flag in the lower left hand corner of that other post, (or the three lines, then the flag) and type in the blank field that comes up that you'd like to have it deleted   
 you might want to be cautious with the bleach - if mixed with ammonia, which cat urine is heavy in, it can create fumes that are deadly. don't use it on litter boxes.  
 my family's old cat would do this. she loooooved bleach. my mom would mop and my cat would go wild, running around, rolling on the floor, getting high. the same with chlorine. when we would get out of the hot tub or pool, she would latch onto our legs and lick us until we finally shook her off and dried our legs.  she never displayed any sort of adverse reaction, totally normal. so i'd say it's just a good smell for them!  
 my c'est moi does the same thing; she seems to love the smell of bleach cleaning spray! i'm always careful not to let her get any of it on her though, because it may be poisonous.   
 my girl cat also likes bleach. she's usually a lazy cat with limited interest in playing, but we start cleaning and it's like she's kitten again running around crazy and super playful. she also gets like this when we burn food, especially bacon. crazy cats  
 hello, thank you very much for replying to me.  
 i am wondering if anyone might be able to shed some light on this. my cat is about 9 years old. about 4 years ago he started to show aggression towards me when i was very upset. basically if i cry about something he obviously senses it and then wants to bite me...hard. it is very scary. i have to close him in another room until we both calm down and then everything is fine. it's like he wants to bite some sense into me or something, but sometimes i need to be sad, y'no? it's so strange. does anyone else have any experiences like this? have you even heard of such a thing?  
 i used to have a cat attack my husband whenever i was upset. she would come out of nowhere and bite him. if i was sad, she would not leave my side. it's amazing how they pick up on your emotions. it sounds like your cat gets upset when you are not happy. i have no solution except you can say no or say ouch and he may or may not get the hint.  
 this reminds me, we used to have a cat who would attack our dog if anyone was yelling. he would go to the other room to find him so he could attack him. it really wasn't very violent, just a couple slaps in the face.   i think some cats are upset by strong emotions, it may just be his way off telling you to stop.  
 you know thats funny, my cat did that too me for the first time the other day. i was actually crying over my other cat because i think she is unwell and i was just frusterated with the thought of going back to the vet, and he walked up and nipped me on the arm twice, pretty hard, not hard enough to break the skin, but it hurt!!!! i was a little confused but figured he sensed the intense emotion and wanted me to stop......he is a really sweet boy and has never bitten before outside of a little overaggressive play.  
 my cat is 1 year and 6 months old and she does the same thing to me when i cry. then after she bites my wrist real hard , she gets down and stays away for aboout an hour then gets up in my lap and rubs her head on my hand. i can't understand it.  
 1. the one time i fostered i had dreadful redirected aggression and random peeing from my own cats (not the ones i have now). the house was too small and there was no way my cats would not notice there were other cats around, even though they didn't go into the same rooms. my two, now, will behave similarly when there are strays in the garden. however, if you've been doing this for a long time, that probably isn't the issue. but i would keep everything to do with the fosters well away from them.  2. i don't know about any enzymatic cleanser that works better, i'm sorry.  3. i think feliway has it's limits. i've not tried calming meds.  it's so hard when your cats don't get on.. mine don't and it's always like walking a fine line. redirected aggression/peeing issues can be instigated by just about anything. i'm not sure you should rule out that your fosters may be triggering it right now.  i'm not much help, am i...   
 so sorry you're dealing with all this.    the simple suggestion would be to separate angus and heidi and do re-introductions. but since they're not the only resident cats, plus there's the fosters (bless you for caring for all them) there could be some territorial issues not even related to each other.  have you tried getting a black light to see if there are any urine marks you've missed?  https://www.amazon.com/s/ref=nb_sb_...n&sprefix=black+lig,aps,218&crid=3oa8lqhlnfyl  i really don't have good suggestions, unfortunately.   one thing i will mention is that there are 2 kinds of feliway now, and some people find one works better than the other. so you might want to read up on that.  about the enzyme cleaner, tcs does have the following articles which may be helpful:  combat cat urine how to remove cat urine how to remove cat urine odor from your home how to get cat urine smell out of carpet: effective, non-toxic solutions how to get cat pee smell out of clothes and linens  
 i think it's time for kitty prozac.  
 he's leaving them for you! you're such a poor hunter, clearly you need help taking care yourself xd   but seriously, he's showing how much he loves you and giving you little gifts. not the most pleasant ones, but... hey, it's the thought that counts!  
 cat: look mommy, look at what i did! you: ewe. cat: did you see mommy? i want you to have it! you: ewe. cat: i did a good job right? i'm a good hunter and protector eh? you: ewe.    
 most cats with a steady source of food will kill for fun more than food. they don't need to eat their catches and it's a lot of work to eat a mouse compared to cat food. crickets and small insects are a chruncy treat so those will usually still be eaten. some cats do bring in their coaches for their owners as either an urge to help feed their owners or show them how to hunt or to show off, depending on who you ask.   i know in my house, nightfury brings in mice and lizards for the other two cats. he's been providing for them since they were babies, teaching them to hunt and giving them plenty of practice. rocket though likes to leave hers outside, my guess is her feral starting made her less inclined to share. but my guys rarely eat the mice they catch and some mice even survive the experience (assuming they aren't caught by rocket).  
 hi. maybe the biting after 11pm is like an overly tired toddler - harder to control their emotions???  
 going to have to do something...will try that next..i thought the balcony blind and hindering the corners were enough..he must be climping and jumping over things...thanks  
 you should not have to make your balcony unusable for you. i might live trap the cat and return it to your neighbor a couple of times and then let her know that next time you will turn it in to animal control, assuming your community has one of those. the other thing is if you are in the same apartment complex, complain to the landlord.  
 if the cat can get to a second floor balcony it might be able to climb the netting. you could net/wire pointed at a 45 degree angle out and up. i'd also put the netting around your balcony so your cats don't walk on the angled net and fall off. here's site that shows how to do it at the top of a fence. for a balcony i'd put it at the bottom. https://www.catcenter.org/pages/knowledgebase/documents/18_fencing/example/fencing_exapmle.asp  
 just be very sure to keep her inside, and separate your cats if they don’t seem to be tolerating one another. do you have plans to have her spayed?  
 oh no....we plan on getting her fixed in the next couple weeks when my daughter gets paid. all doors are locked and everyone knows to be quick coming and going. not even out on her leash. ik it'd probably kill her and we def are responsible pet keepers... since noone owns cats..lol  
 she also wants to be high up. tries crazily to jump, climb, scratch her way up. is this also a symptom?  
 some cats just prefer to be up high, and since her heat is making her antsy, she feels even more secure up there. i doubt her love of heights is caused by the heat, but it certainly intensifies it.  
 i don't know if i just have the exception but my girl had one heat cycle before her previous owner had her spayed and i adopted her. my male cat who was neutered at 10 weeks old suddenly realized he was a typical mancat and there was now a pretty female in his space when we brought her home.  even still, i'll catch him with his nose right smack dab in her business!  
 hi! try a couple things, how about a nightlight?  also, due to the way you described his behavior, what about a heating pad --with a couple of towels on it so it doesn't get too warm.  try a ticking clock, if it's too loud wrap it in a towel to muffle it. i know these things are usually for kittens but separation anxiety is not age specific, i think.  also, you could try low volume classical harp music, or musicforcats . com.  oh, and maybe a different vet   
 an option if you have enough space is to confine him to a room by himself for the night. if you don’t have a spare room then there are very nice two story cat kennels that would give him plenty of room. combine that with a heated bed and he might eventually settle down. if you do go the heated bed route, there are ones designed specifically for pets that only turn on when the animal lies on it and shuts off when they get up.  
 when i first adopted my ruby, she would jump up on the bed and wake me every morning 60 to 90 minutes before it was time to get up. eventually i got sleep deprived, and started putting her out of the room and closing the door when she woke me, telling her she had to wait for the radio to come one. i can't remember how long it took now (maybe a few weeks), but one morning my radio came on, and then i heard her galloping down the hall, and onto the bed.   these days she will occasionally wake me too early, but i ignore her and she goes away. so i definitely would try putting him out of the room when he disturbs your sleep. luckily for me, ruby didn't scratch at the door, like your greg does. for that reason, as @susanm9006 suggested, is there a spare room you could put him in that is far enough away from the bedroom that you can't hear him?  not sure if there is anything that will work for you, but here's the link to the tcs article how to stop my cat from waking me up at night (step-by-step plan) that might have some helpful tips.  
 wow as someone who has multiple chronic illness i understand what your wife is going through...and yes she needs her rest...and so do you for that matter...you said when you pet him he will start to bite...he may be overstimulated...also you said this strted the last time you were gone...who did you have watch him? maybe you can ask them if anything out of the ordinary happened and also bring them around to see if greg acts different...also my boy was also waking us up and it was getting crazy as well...i started to shove him off bed and say no in a very firm voice...as i am the light sleeper (my hubby could sleep through an earthquake lol) it took a few weeks but he stopped...another thing i did too was give him affection and he would settle in to sleep....and that's what he will do now...so if if this helps but you know you can also google jackson galaxy...he has tons of suggestions for issues  
 i have a emergency trip coming up soon and i need to find someone to look after my cat. i don't trust my step father as he works all sorts of hours and my brother will be with my auntie. i don't think my auntie has any experience with cats at all and she's scared of them so it's a no go.  i have a cousin who does have experience with cats and has her own with her teenage kids. she'll always be home as she homeschools her kids.  they don't have a spare bedroom and my mother is not happy with having a pet sitter having our keys. our neighbours are a bit scared and again clueless so we don't trust them.   i am happy to spend a few days at my cousin to help nalah acclimatise. please give me some tips. nalah is a shy type whereas my cousin's cat is a social cat always trying to make friends when he can which is unusual - he can't fight at all, usually the poor mite is the butt of the fight. is this ideal? they're both neutered as well.  
 if he's feeling ill, he might be easier to handle.  
 i will keep an eye on him, see if anything changes in the next 12-24hrs.  any ideas regarding what could be wrong though? i mean, he wants attention and petting, isn't throwing up... just...any ideas whatsoever?  
 as scary as attempting to take him to the vet is it sounds like he really needs to see one. if you can't find a vet to come to the house call your vet. ask about a sedative so getting him into a carrier and the exam are easier on both of you. also get a carrier that opens from the top.  
 please just put on some gloves, put him in a cage, throw a towel over it to keep him calm, and take him to the vet. a lethargic cat that won't eat and is looking for warmth is classic sick cat behaviour. he won't win any best patient of the year awards, but the vet will manage. no one on this thread can tell you what is wrong with him, and it could be very serious.  
 we adopted a feral kitten 3 years ago, and although she really liked our other two cats, she was never thrilled with the humans. she always behaved, never scratched us or the furniture, but didn't want to be pet. this past spring, the door was left open so she left and went to live alone in the barn. we feed and water her there. we even set up a cat house and heated bowl for when it gets cold. today, she left me (?) a big fat mouse between the barn door and the feeding bowl. i accept this as a gift, but have no need for a dead mouse. should i leave it for her to eat or would she see it as rude to not accept it? i would hate to insult her. can a cat even be insulted?  
 i would pick it up in front of her and thank her (normally i would pet to express this, but she doesn't like that), then dispose of the mouse out of her sight.  
 hi, and welcome to tcs   the best thing is just to dispose of the mouse. its definitely a gift, but cats don't think like humans do, and you don't need to worry about offending your girl.   cats will generally only eat fresh kills, so there's no point in leaving it for her to eat. its pretty common for well cared for barn cats to hunt and kill rodents and then not eat them. i have a barn cat, too, and she always used to leave little gifts for me (and for my pony!). i would always dispose of uneaten kills. leaving them lying around is unsanitary, and is likely to attract flies or other undesirables.  
  thank you! i am establishing a routine for her, and will follow your other suggestions as well. hopefully she will eventually pick up on the feeling of security. she must have already, at least a little, because she has even eaten in front of me, right after i put a food dish down. patience and routine will hopefully do the trick.  
 hi! @msaimee @1 bruce 1 do you have thoughts for the op?  
 well, i can't even imagine a better home for this cat than with you. it sounds like an ideal living arrangement for her (quiet, no rowdy kids or kittens or over eager dogs, etc.) despite the few mishaps (i'm very sorry about your losses of dominique and your father in such a short time, as well.) if she's exploring a little on her own, that's good news and even better that she briefly cheek-marked you. personally i feel you're doing all you can right now, it will take some time for her to adjust. poor thing has been through a lot lately. if she's eating and eating well, you might use this to your advantage and "deliver" treats throughout the day.  i'd spend a lot of time ignoring her, and if she shyly ventures out a little don't talk to her much and don't watch her (some cats seem to feel like they're being "stalked" if a human they don't know very well is looking at them when they decide to be brave. they lose their nerve and bolt.) if you're up moving around and she comes out, and startles and goes to hide, let her hide. don't make it a huge deal if she loses her bravery momentarily. she'll soon see there's nothing to be afraid of.  
 i want to give you a hug for all cat lovers. i think it will work out just doing what you are doing. clearly nothing should be rushed.   
 can she hear ok? i think i would try clicker training her, just to give her a daily positive interaction with me. also i had 2 boys that i re-homed to my aunt, she fed them fancy feast to. they each got 6 cans a day each and turned into fat furry sausages with tails! short term i would give her 4 small meals a day (and the clicker training baby food) and long term i would make sure i wasn't over feeding her. most cats prefer to eat 3-4 times a day. you can buy automatic feeders that will keep her food cold until lunch time. thank you for taking that poor girl in. since you mentioned matting, daily brushing followed by a clicker treat can help prevent that from happening again. i use a rubber kong cat brush for my boys but they are short haired. so you may need to experiment to see what she prefers. chicken gourmet wet cat food | fancy feast® (one can per day per 3-3.5 pounds) how to clicker train a cat 3 tricks to teach your cat with clicker training best brushes for long hair cats | meow lifestyle * i think i would buy the scaredy cat scissors for her back in & any mats she currently has. how to adopt an old cat  *i nuke my cat's left over food for 3-7 seconds the stir it, to warm it up from the fridge. *my boy is allergic to chicken but they do make tons of wet food. once you get her settled it might be worth experimenting a bit. my boys love lovebugs lamb recipe .... though it can not compete with fancy feast tuna or salmon broth (they eat dry food, the wet food is bonus. yes i know wet food is better but they are 12 & 13 years old and big dry food junkies.) i'm betting that she loves her fancy feast, my boys did back when they could eat it. *given that you have a senior cat i would stock up on some cat broth (chicken) just in case you ever need to get her to drink.) *clicker training, your cat can eat chicken or beef baby food (provided there is no onion or garlic in it.) water down baby food also makes a great eat/hydrate meal for a sick cat, in a pinch.  thank you for taking her in!    
 i'm so glad you mentioned this training stuff. clicker or marker training can be so helpful. if the person doing the training isn't certain on how it's done, relax and be willing to learn. all you'll do is fudge something up, and marker training for most cats is 100% un-harmful and the worst you'll do is train a chain of behaviors and learn along the way. hell my first dog i trained with any sort of marker was fudged up a bit. the only bad thing he did was learn some crazy routine that i unintentionally trained.   
 lucy baby!!  since the 'nip is a question mark, you could try honeysuckle, or even parsley  i see that some of the smaller online stores aren't carrying honeysuckle toys anymore or are closed but at a quick glance ebay, amazon and etsy have some and if you or anyone reading this/lurking is outside the us, madaboutcats (offline until october 1, 2018) and kittykottage also carry items.  
 thank you! i don't think her hearing is perfect, but she can hear somewhat. i will explore clicker training. i didn't know there were automatic feeders for wet food as well as dry -- i will look into that! i have a "furminator" brush, but right now she doesn't even want to be touched, so we're not up to brushing... and her fur is still growing back after her mats were shaved, poor thing.       
   
 thanks for the update. glad lucy is doing better. and with all those cat condos, i see she also likes a cardboard box.   
 my 18 year old cat lays on his heating pad even in the summer. i don't know if that's because he has problems regulating his body temperature, or because the heat is soothing to his arthritis. i am thinking the latter.  
 i have a total of six cats, four of whom were intentional adoptions from a shelter, the other two were "we were found by the cat" adoptions.  the five cats who were already in residence: circe - approx age 10.5 years, she's been mine for 4 years autumn - approx age 6.5 years, also mine for 4 years domino - approx age 6 years, only male (neutered), mine for 4.5 years tv - approx age 6 years, mine for 4.5 years cosette - approx age 3.5 years, mine for 2.5 years  newcomer: mabel, now probably about 6 months (based on teeth at her first vet visit, probably born during april of this year), she's been with us since august and was spayed mid-september  mabel is really bonded with my youngest son, whose bedroom is upstairs (with a separate bathroom up there), and when she first came here, she was alone up there until we got her clean bill of health.  the issue with trying to integrate mabel with the other cats is mabel herself. she hisses at the other cats, while the other cats just kind of look at her with what seems like a mildly amused expression, there is no poofing of tails or arching of backs from the older 5 cats--only from mabel. there hasn't been anything physical unless mabel swipes at one of them (mostly cosette or tv), and they will turn around hiss and whap her one (but still no poofing/arching back and mabel is the only one whose ears go flat).   so i don't know how to get mabel integrated with the others. the other five have no objections to her presence (they will walk right past her into the kitchen and eat while she's posturing). we've tried brushing back and forth for scent transfer. currently, mabel eats separately from the others.  so is mabel just a cat who should be solitary, or is there hope for her to get along with the others?  
 hi. seems too early to get too worried over it. if she didn't come from a shelter where she was exposed to multiple cats in the same area, she is probably freaking out at the number around her, feeling intimidated and overwhelmed. good that the others are kind of just "meh" about it.   i don't have the links readily available, but one of our super members will come along soon and provide you with a plethora of good info about bringing a new member in.  
 hey there, i just got a new cat today from a shelter, her name is leah!  i was given a full behavioural disclosure from the adoption people and the declaration was her high energy, which meant for stimulative play and daily routine to keep from frustration and boredom.  leah completely skipped the sanctuary process, (keeping the cat in a safe environment before full introduction into the home and to others) she was highly eager to leave my bedroom, and would get frustrated despite my attempts to play with her in the room, wanting to leave and explore. (she was very explorative and didn't keep to one part of the house)  i'm wondering about the following;   she's taken a liking to our furniture, a little so much that she's indulged herself in using it as a scratching post, despite stern "no's" like recommended, it didn't stop her from continuing. how can i prevent her from doing this? stern "no's" haven't stopped her from climbing around things she shouldn't, is there a better alternative that's not a water sprayer?   
 in addition; she's a 1.5 years old siamese mix.  
 the dos and don'ts of cat behavior modification  
 both of these help a lot! thanks a lot!   
 solving cat behavior problems: the key ingredient  5 reasons to never spray water on your cat  these are some ones i recently read. we're still working on the counter thing. as with providing an alternative place to scratch, the articles mention that teaching cats to use an alternative using positive reinforcement is often most effective. so in our kitchen, i cleared off a stand that is about the same level as the counter, taller than our table, but is away from where we prepare and eat food. i have designated it as her shelf since this afternoon. i put a box up there(she loves those) hung a scratching thing, put a toy there, and then added a few treats. now instead of simply telling her no and removing her from the counter, i put her on her shelf with a treat as a friendly reminder of where she should be instead. too soon to tell if it is helping, but the other method was having some negative impacts on behavior like increased biting.  
 she may not know the word "no." try hissing; it's what another cat would do to correct unwanted behavior.  
 ...until it's too late, and he's spread it everywhere.  hi!  my cat, merry, was born with back legs that aren't quite right. as a result, he walks and runs at a squat and can't jump quite as high as his brother. i've been told it doesn't hurt him.   when he uses the litter box (or worse, doesn't), he steps in the poop and gets it on his back legs and doesn't seem to care that he's disgusting. i've seen him clean his back legs, so i know he can do it, but he usually doesn't do it in a timely manner and it seems like i'm constantly cleaning up crap.  we are addressing his soft stools (no parasites, so the vet put him on an antibiotic and it seems to be helping), and it isn't an accessibility issue, as he can get into the boxes easily and i keep them clean. i've given up on trying to get him to cover his poop; now i'd just be happy if he would quit getting it on himself. we adopted the boys at 3 months and they purportedly came litterbox-trained.  how do i encourage him to have good hygiene before i lose my gd mind?  
 i wonder if puppy pads would be better for him? maybe it's the act of climbing out of the litterbox that makes him step in it. if he doesn't bury it anyway there shouldn't be much difference as to odor. give it a try!  
 how high are the sides of the litter box? @willowy suggested puppy pads. that may be a good idea.   has the vet stated what is causing poop issues? something must be causing the stool issues, and the cause needs to be treated.  
 indeed he has but he is getting checked again on thursday. back in nov we had a bad time with him and the box (but it was my fault-i only had one and did not clean it enough-i was a new cat mom and had no idea what i was doing) but we fixed that with cleaning boxes more, more boxes, special food and feliway (every so often he would have a mistake and go in the sink but that was it) on thursday i noticed him sniffing around the sink like he wanted to go to the bathroom but i turned the sink on to try to discourage it (might not have been the best on on my part). on friday oscar woke me up earlier than usual but i rolled over and went back to bed. after i fed them at around 6:30am in went back into my room and saw/felt that a spot on my comforter was damp and smelled like urine. i tried not to panic. i got rid of the comforter, changed the sheets and gave them a few treats on the bed to remind them that the bed is not a box. later that day i deep cleaned to boxes (scrubbed them and all new litter) and saw that it was clearly time for them to be cleaned (it had only been 10 days since i last cleaned them but for some reason this time they seemed extra dirty this time). i hoped it was just his way of telling me the box was dirty and went about the rest of my weekend (didn't want to stress them out with a trip to the vet if it was nothing as it upsets them). saturday and sunday nothing happened. this morning we got up like normal at 6:30am and i scooped the box and saw he had gone a bit. later at around 7am in got back into bed and he and felix started to romp. next thing i knew oscar as on my bed pawing at my feet. i did not think much of it as i figured he was just playing (he sometimes digs and paws at things before he settles down but then i felt felix doing it which is not normal. i sat up and felt/saw/smelled a damp spot sorta near when friday's mistake was. i got out of bed, stripped the sheets, replaced the feliway, gave them a snack on the bed and we all walked out into the living room. once there i saw oscar willingly hop in his box and go to the bathroom a pretty good amount. i am not sure what to do here or what this means. could it be a medical thing as he went 3 times in less them 3 hours? could it be i did not clean the bed well enough the first time and he could still smell pee? (i got rid of the comforter and changed the sheets but i did leave the blanket so maybe some of the odor lingered...) please help-i am at a loss as to what to do   
 i would think the cat wouldn't stay on its back if it felt attacked either. i guess it could be playing, but it really doesn't look like my resident cat is liking it at all, so i stop it. sorry if i hijacked your thread, op. just thought maybe it was ok since it is the same topic!  
 it's neither playing nor fighting.  cats establish relationships with one another through dominance. but cat's don't dominate the way dogs do. cat dominance is situational.  one cat might dominate in one situation but the other might dominate in another.  let's take, for instance, two cats who like to perch on the same windowsill. the windowsill doesn't belong to one cat or the other. they basically "time share" it.  the window might "belong" to one cat in the morning but might belong to the other in the afternoon. the two cats will "negotiate" which one gets to sit by the window at a given time or situation.  if the "underdog" cat is sitting in the window but the other cat is dominant, he will chase the first cat away. if the dominant cat is in the window when the "underdog" tries to sit there, they will tussle until one or the other takes over.  this is not "fighting," per se. neither is it "playing." it's just the way cats negotiate.  cats can't talk and they don't have hands. they can only use their mouths and claws. they will wrestle and chase each other as if to say, "it's not your turn yet!"  it's just "cat politics"... totally normal.  
 i have two cats. fred is 5 and i’ve had him for 4 years, ralph is 1 and i’ve had him since he was 4 months old. fred was a semi feral and i think has some ptsd from living outdoors. he’s incredibly skittish and shy, to the point where you can’t even walk in the same direction as him without him getting upset and running away. a common phrase in our house is “everything’s okay fred, i’m not chasing you”. ralph i adopted from a shelter where i think he was born and raised. i think he was a bottlefed baby based on his distant personality. the only background i have on him is he was brought to the shelter i got him from after a shelter in a neighboring state became overcrowded. he’s brave, he’s bold, and nothing phases him.  that being said, ralph plays very rough. straight to pouncing, biting and chasing. fred sounds like he’s being murdered every time ralph tries to play. i’m not sure if it’s in pain or fear or both. i can’t clap my hands or do anything to scare ralph because i’m afraid of giving fred a heart attack. it mostly happens in the evenings around bed time and first thing in the morning. i bring fred into my room at night and he sleeps on his pillow where he knows he’s safe from ralph. as far as i know ralph has never seriously injured fred and vice versa. fred has never stood up for himself and more or less just takes the abuse. fred cannot scratch on the tree or dig in the litter box without getting a reaction from ralph that results in a screaming fred.   when ralph is being too rough i pick him up and put him in the bathroom for 10 or so minutes and let him calm down and decompress. but lately by the time i get to them if i’m in another room ralph makes a run for it and hides under a bed, behind our washer and dryer or somewhere i can’t reach him and he thinks it’s all a big game. ralph does wear a “calming collar” (he has some other behavioral issues that stem from hyperactive activity) they do play with toys together, they eat together and i find them sleeping near each other or on different levels of the cat tree together. fred is no longer over grooming or yowling at night because he’s lonely. i think he enjoys the company of another cat, just not the negative attention.   this post got much longer than i wanted it to, thank you for reading the entire thing!  
 yes, ralph wears a calming collar. i have the feliway multi-cat i’m just waiting for a new diffuser to come. i’ve used it before and haven’t seen much difference.   
 di has the answer. snake hunters have to be absolutely positively sure that snake is dead. a number of mine have been snake/cord hunters -- they really like it if you make the cord move like a snake. my outside cat brought home snakes. i've seen the neighbor's cat with one in our yard. he seemed to be discussing it with another cat, and, happily, took it home.  
 i just want to say thank you to everyone! by the way both cats were new to the house. the other cat happens to be my roommates. as for the litter the only difference was that it has the ammonia blocker. i wasn't sure if that was a big change. i am really excited to learn better ways to help mazie (my cat) flourish in her new home!  
 i’ve had my goofy lil kitty mothman for about two months and have noticed something kinda weird that he does all the time. to get off my bed he almost never just jumps off, he will either roll until he falls off or slowly slides head first off the bed. occasionally he sticks the landing but most of the time he just plops onto the floor. he also will flop down on his side anywhere, which includes right on the edge of couches, chairs and beds. i usually try to catch him but he still manages to fall sometimes.   he doesn’t try to catch himself with his claws or anything but i’m afraid of him landing hard on his head or landing wrong and hurting himself. i figure this probably is just a funny quirk of his since he can jump, run and play normally with only moments of clumsiness.   one other thing. i was thinking of getting a cat tree, but i’m not sure with him falling off of things if it’d be a good idea...  
 hello everyone.  jake is 2 year old, he's a very loving and social cat. in the pass couple weeks he's been pooping, but never urinating, in the area right beside his litter box.  during this period of time i have changed to a new job, which i am away at work for 8-10 hours a day. before this i was working from home most of the time.  he does this consistently every evening when i come home. i work in a dusty environment with construction material such as mineral fiber and polystyrene. when i come home, i would go straight to my room and into the shower for both his and my health. he greets me enthusiastically, and i don't want him to rub on my dusty work clothes so i try to avoid him touching me before i can clean myself. i can usually hear him meowing loudly while i'm in the shower. soon as i come out of my room i would see a pile of poop beside his litter box, and he would be rubbing me and rolling over affectionately.  during the same period, i have changed the litter from swheat scoop to world's best cat litter.  jake still uses the litter box daily, and i find normal amount of both urine and feces in the litter box.  beside this behavioral change, he is very active, eating, drinking, and excreting normally. i had a vet check-up with him 2 months ago (prior to the my work changes and litter change) and he was doing fine.  his excrement looks/smells normal.  i will be switching back to the old litter tomorrow as a first step. if that doesn't work at least i would have eliminated that possible cause.  i'd love do know what you think! any advise is greatly appreciated.  
 hi. not sure, but to have lily mewing more and not liking her food as well seems connected somehow. if she no longer likes her food, what are you feeding her - or, are you just giving her the same food? is she eating less?   how long has lily and fynn been back home with you since they were at your mum's. is that close to the timeline of her behavior change? and, was she fed different food while there? just trying to come up with things that might help to explain the change.  
 we are back since 3 weeks now. she does not seem in pain or discomfort (picking her up is not a problem and she still cuddles, just less than usual). my mum was over yesterday and saw her briefly. it seems more like a psychological issue as health wise she seems to be in top form   
 i grew up in a tiny village surrounded by forest. there are no indoor cats there. and i have to admit lily would be amazing at hunting down mice and exploring the nature there. she has been in our garden before, because she managed to escape. so she does know that there is an outside.   my mum (the vet) asked me to come in to have a look at her, to make sure she was alright. she couldn't find anything wrong with her health-wise. i waited a bit, hoping it would change. she did get a bit better, but she is still complaining and now peed on our bean bag in the living room. she has a history of doing this (used to do it at my mums house, her dogs have a huge flat bean bag in the dining room they like to sleep on and every chance she got she peed on it). but since we moved to the new flat 4 month ago it hasn't happened again until today. food seems fine at the moment, i got her a different brand that has more jelly like and she seems very happy with it.   
 she has escaped before into the garden at my mums house a couple of times (my mums's husband isn't great with animals), so she knows there is an outside. she is interested in our main door. however, in our flat we have a lot of doors and before we leave the house or open the main door we make sure the cats don't have access to the main door (they can still access the majority of the flat).   if she is talkie, she only started about 2 weeks ago with it. i don't know if that is normal when a cat is already over a year old. today she has also peed on our bean bag in the living room. she has a history of doing this (used to do it at my mums house, her dogs have a huge flat bean bag in the dining room they like to sleep on and every chance she got she peed on it). but since we moved to the new flat 4 month ago it hasn't happened again until today.  i also got her checked out by my mum. she asked me to bring her to the praxis to make sure she really is okay health-wise. my mum couldn't find anything, she seems to be perfectly healthy :/   
 one of mine rushed out the back door to the fenced in yard. he stopped, looked around, and hurried back inside. i believe he thought the door led to another room. his previous experiences out of doors had not been positive.  
   
 who feeds him @figo?  
 you could surprise your wife by teaching your cat to do a high 5 with clicker training.  
 thank you for your comments guys. i will update this thread.  it is funny because figo likes to nap with me or my wife during the day, but if my wife goes to bed at night, he always follows her and leave me on the couch by myself. lol  
 i don't know, i'm not sure every cat will eat grass, but definitely leave it out for him. if he's a grass eater, he'll catch on   
 in our household, my husband and i try to split the cat caretaking pretty equally. we share in the food-giving, the litter box cleaning, the playing. husband has the night shift of meals and litter box; i have the day shift. playing happens anytime, 24/7 and it's all hands on deck. anyway, my husband plays entirely differently with our cat than i do. she loves playing with him and her toys get a workout. she also likes to climb on his back & hang out, and roll around in his laundry. and sit in the bathroom while he showers. and if he's gone on a business trip, around day two of being gone: howls and prowls. day three is redirected aggression against me. by day four, she is depressed and lethargic. all because she's a daddy's girl. she's ecstatic when he's home, and the household returns to normal.  the thing i've learned, though, is that she loves and is used to each of us, used to both of our "skills" as humans, and wants both of us in her lives. she gets more cuddle and companion time with me, more play, excitement and adoration time with my husband.  
  thank you!   yes, the bullied cat growled at the kitten a few weeks ago and now the aggressive one hasn't left her alone since. her area is mostly my bed and dresser, and when i try to remove her from the space to simply put her on the floor or in a litter box, she growls (even when the aggressive cat is not around) and races back to the bed.   i've been giving her extra attention, but i didn't think about teaching her tricks! she loves playing, so i'll give that a try!   
 hi! good on you for thinking ahead about this   along with these articles, which aren't long but have good info - a good stress reducer is music - there's an app called relax my cat, or classical harp music.  also, there are calming products available - i personally would stay away from one called feliway, it doesn't always work plus there are now too many fake feliway products on the market, but other products have chamomile, valerian, tryptophan, casein.  i think you'll be just fine   do cats get jealous? (and what to do about it when they do)  how to safely introduce a cat and a dog  potential stressors in cats - the ultimate checklist  six surefire strategies to reduce stress in cats  
 hi there, i've recently adopted two cats a week apart from each other. freya is 1 year old and franklin is 4 months (but the same size as freya!). we'd originally met and reserved franklin to collect a week later and then walked past freya at the rescue centre, she jumped straight into our arms - and clearly chose us. she's been incredibly loving this last week, with plenty of cuddles and head bumps. we knew we could care for both cats so we went ahead with both adoptions thinking that freya was settled. we brought franklin home yesterday and we're keeping them separated - though they have seen each other for 5-10 minutes while we set up food and litter trays with some deep growling from freya. she is being fairly distant and i'm terrified that i've betrayed her and she won't be as comfortable (and as loving - selfishly) as she has been this last week. i just want to give them a happy and caring home, so i'm anxious that i've made the wrong decision. what can i do to show freya that she is just as loved as she has been in the week she's made our house her home?  
 hi she's not loving you less, she's trying to work out the new dynamic of another kitty  do cats get jealous? (and what to do about it when they do)  how to successfully introduce cats: the ultimate guide  
 thanks for your help and advice! it's going reasonably well so far, but freya is still a bit agitated. they're both such wonderful cats - i love them to bits. i will keep you posted!  
 please do, we worry about such things and wonder how things are going...  .   
 this is fantastic!!      
 hi there,  i'm looking to see if anyone can give me some advice.  i foster for a rescue in my city. i'm currently fostering an absolutely wonderful semi-feral bonded pair named george and ruby.  george(orange tabby) is about 1-2 years old and is the biggest sweetheart. it took a while but he has completely warmed up to me. he loves cuddles and being held for comfort, loves treats and will eat them out of my hand. we think he used to be a pet, so he's much more trusting.   ruby is about 6-12 months old. she's a tiny little girl who loves her george and follows him around.  the issue i'm having is with ruby. she was born outside during last years kitten season but they weren't able to rescue her. she is definitely on the more severe side of semi-feral.   she will let me pet her from head to tail while she's eating, she follows me around and will eat treats out of my hands but she is still so very timid. she still spooks at the slightest noise or quick movement. i have to buritto wrap her to cut her nails and can't pick her up in any way even to get her into a carrier for vet trips.  she'll even stand a few feet away from me and purr while kneading the floor.  she's such a sweet girl and you can tell she wants to be loved.. i just feel like i'm missing something. like i could be doing one extra thing to make her more comfortable. i'm worried we'll have a hard time finding a forever home for her if she can't even stay still and not hide if a potential adopter comes to visit.  i'm also having some issues with her attacking my cats. she's so protective of george that if my two even raise a paw to him to play or looks at him wrong, she lunges.      any advice?  thank you!  
 she sounds very much like my girl rocket. rocket was feral when she came to me at 4 months and is very much attached to my boy. honestly, there isn't much more you can do. she needs time and stability to feel more confident. usually, former ferals will bond strongly to one person but not many others.  i know my girl is very cautious around my dad despite him being retired and home almost all day, every day for the three years she's been with us. however, she adores my brother who didn't even live with us until recently. go figure.  ruby and george would probably do best in a home where it is just them for the furry side and no children. even if you get her more comfortable in your house; she will probably be starting over in their forever home. i would focus on finding an adopter that is right for them as soon as possible. one who will accept that she will love on her terms and enjoys the quieter side of life. those of us willing to live with a cat who takes more patience will understand that she isn't as immediately approachable. i know how much harder it makes finding a home; but there may not be much other choice if she truly is like my girl.  
 just love her and try to show her humans are nice. i would keep the other cats away as much as possible. i know my girl absolutely hates other cats and is very territorial about it.  
 hello and welcome to tcs. congrats on the kittens. i'm sure in time they'll be best buds.   how old is the female kitten? also, has haze been neutered yet? if not, that might be something to consider soon.  also, here's a tcs article on how to introduce a kitten to an older cat which might be helpful.  
 its always a good idea to check for a uti sure, but this is a common scenario for a young cat that doesn't require a medical or stress-related explanation. sometimes they just start slipping up a bit, but once you understand what is going on, you can help get him back on track.  90% of "accidents" happen in the bed, because the covers can be kneeded with the paws to simulate burying waste. a soft or at least flexible bag is also a common target. your going to have to temporarily eliminate temping targets for at least a few weeks to get your cat back in the grove, so let me help with that:  -nothing soft or flexible left on ground level -no laundry/clothing accessible -- i.e. if your throwing dirty clothes on the floor or leaving the laundry basket accessible i advise stopping asap to avoid an issue -no access to the bed or at the least put the comforter away and make the sheets tight before allowing access -no access to the bathmat -no piles of children's stuffed animals on the floor  if you have area rugs you can't put away, watch like a hawk. and buy a blacklight.  
 hello and welcome to tcs. thank you to you and your wife for your compassion and kindness in taking in the stray cat. hopefully in time she and your resident cat will be friends.  have you had the newcomer vet checked yet? is she spayed?  
 hi!  there have been people with a similar situation, where one of the things they suggest is to work to increase the shy kitty's confidence with more attention and play.  also, for the litterbox issues, try a litter called cat attract, and also try adding some unfertilized potting soil to it.  for food, give the new kitty a couple of meals if 50:50 boiled unseasoned chicken and a little white rice. hopefully this resets her tummy and you can introduce a different brand of wet food. being she's under a year, she'll need to eat a lot.   for all of you but especially the cats, try low volume classical harp music, there's an app called relax my cat, and there's also musicforcats.com. in addition there are calming products available such as feliway, and other diffusers, treats, and even collars.  i'm sending you a lot of good thoughts!!  
 ok that is really interesting. she definitely has stray cat food obsession, and i will try sticking to one food for a couple days. she seems to get bored of and stops eating one food if i've gave it to her too many times in a row. also need to try yet still boiling some chicken and feeding her chicken with wild rice. i read the articles and am sticking to the process. the more information the merrier. thank you for all the provisions. have you ever had to acclimate two cats to one another?   
 my family, and now myself, only ever had 1 cat at a time, so i've never experienced the process of acclimating 2 cat to one another. but lots of members here on tcs have. here's one current thread: introductions with two scaredy cats  about food, here's a couple tcs articles: what do i need to know about feeding my cat? transitioning your cat from kibble to a new type of food (canned, raw, or homemade) how much food should i feed my cat?  
 where is she going? if anywhere that is at all consistently, put a box there.  she may dislike the current location, i don't know.  
 can you take him to the vet? it’s best to see if there’s anything medical going on before trying to work on behavior.   litterbox problems? here's why you should call your vet  when physical problems turn into behavior problems  
 i would take him to the vet to rule out a uti. uti's can present as a sudden urge to pee which can cause accidents outside the litter box. if a uti is caught really early it is very possible that the cat is not showing any signs of pain yet. sometimes the only sign of the uti is peeing outside the litter box. this actually happened with one of my cats. he was taken to the vet and treated. he made a full recovery.  i am not a vet but based on the symptoms you are describing this does not seem like a blockage. i would keep an eye on the volume of pee. if your cat is still using the litter box at all check to make sure the pee clumps are not suddenly getting smaller in addition to the change in frequency. if his pee clumps suddenly drastically decrease in size then that could be a sign that he is starting to block. also if you notice changes eating habits, straining, bloody pee, or being extra vocal in the litter box then those would be signs of a blockage versus a normal uti. i would do a vet visit as soon as you can. a uti that is not treated quickly enough can cause a blockage.  
 i would try putting one or the other in their carrier and leaving her out where the other can sniff and see her . usually kittens adapt very quickly to one another so it might not take more than a few of meetings before the growling and hissing stop. once it does, let the kitten out and engage them both in some play and see how that goes.  
 just a thought.. you said you adopted both kittens. did they come already spayed? if so ( not sure if possible where they are so young) could it be hormones settling/ hormone in balance?  
    war&wisdom said: ↑  yeah, it sounds like they just need to get to know each other. let us know how it goes!click to expand...  yeah i think so. i'm letting them spend more and more time together. mimi still pounces on her and bites. my concern is that she doesn't let go. she will stay on top of tammy and sink her teeth into tammy's side and will stay there unless and until i move her or tammy swats her away. she doesn't draw blood though and tammy doesn't cry so i guess she's not doing it very hard and/or her tiny kitten teeth are too small to make a real dent.  the good part is that mimi has stopped growling and only minimally hisses now. tammy's always been chill from day one and just ignores mimi for the most part.  it is getting better though. yesterday they sat side by side and ate treats together for quite a long time.   
 kitten teeth always felt sharper to me. i think you're right that mimi isn't biting hard just hanging on hoping for attention. it sounds like tammy is handling it properly and giving discipline when needed.   
 fostering kittens currently and the little minions growl/bite/squeal/fake bunny kick/pounce/hiss at each other all the time. because they are so young i'm inclined to say let them sort it out themselves (she may need to learn to play nice/manners.) they are both babies and need to be with you as much as possible. that said feel free to distract them with toys when they start getting a little rough. * my 7 week old minions are surprisingly gentle with me because they are learning how to nice with each other. plus they have adult cats to teach them manners. my punk bops them on the head occasionally but they love him.  
 they are best buds now! they slept on the bed with me last night and they eat together and play together. it just happened out of nowhere. one day mimi is attacking and preying on tammy and the next she's playing and grooming haha. i don't separate them anymore.       oh and here's mimi when i first got her:     
 thanks! just wanted to make sure the behavior is normal! any thoughts on how to clip his nails? he’s very wiggly and will definitely not appreciate me trying to clip them   
 wait until he is asleep or very sleepy - they go practically comatose at his age. set him on your lap, gently press to bring out his claw and use a nail clipper to take just the tiny pointed ends off. there are good youtube videos in how to clip cats nails.  
 every single kitten that grew up in our house went through a phase of playing in the litter box. i don't know why and i don't know where they got the idea that it was fun. it will take a while, but your kitten will grow out of that stage. honest.   
 yes, it's a kitten/juvenile thing. some cats are just more mischievous than others and get into everything. siamese are high-energy cats, too. we're on our second "digger" in a row (he's 2 1/2), and this has helped keep the mess in check: blackhole cat litter mat amazon.co.uk has them.  
 if i was still in the usa i would say yes as that is the name of a old ppl home lol. i live near the nottingham forest u know robin hood lol thats about 10-20 mins down the street roughly lol  
 every once in a while i get a foster kitty who thinks litter boxes make great toys. typically i've learned they get over pretty after a week or two.  if he keeps doing it maybe let it get a little dirtier then normal and he'll be to grossed out to play in it? just an idea in case he doesn't out grown it!  
 hopefully that will work as we are looking to get another siamese cat in the house to keep dopey aka sheamus company lol so if that works i'll know what to do now if i could just get him to stop biting me it would be all good!  
 it probably would help! it will also help with the biting. right now he doesn't know biting hurts you, but if he plays with another kitty and tries to bite the new kitty, he'll get told off really quick. biting while playing is a very common behavior in kittens raised by themselves because they don't learn how to play properly. (of course other kitties do it to). once they get introduced to another kitty the behavior in my experience goes away or lessens after a few days.  when i have a biter my method of dealing with it is we just stop play and we get up and walk away. doesn't matter what we were playing or doing, if i get bit i just walk away. the kitten kind of stares at me like "why'd we stop playing?!" then of course goes off to play more... but eventually they learn that biting = no play and they'll stop doing it. it really needs a to stop while he's young too, it's cute when they're little, but not so cute when they're big....   
 i just landed here doing a search after my 5 month old kitten started being a terror in her new clay litter that i don't think she's experienced before. she was doing well with pine litter and strictly business, i tried to switch to clay just now and it's an exciting toy. so maybe try different litter types? something to think about.  
 yes those rubber/foamish matts that catch litter work wonders! i bought one off chewy for 10$ (usa $) so that is not a crazy expense. however if he disagrees so much he can sweep/vacuum twice a day   
 let me put it to you this way -- it is a known problem for cats that are friends to fight after one comes home from the vet or groomer, because they smell a little different. that is after one day. generally speaking, cats just aren't dogs that remember each other and get excited to see each other. sure there are stories where a cat travels 3,000 miles, finds its family months or years later and its like nothing ever happened. but in the real world, cats aren't generally wired for long term memory of family and friends. no one can give you exact odds, but the chances of stress are high.  if your cat is totally ok with being in the carrier, and its not far for the visit, i guess you could see what happens. however, i would not do it even in that circumstance because if there are hostilities, that is unnecessary stress for the duration of the visit.  bottom line - visits to old friends are for people, and probably dogs too. not cats.  
 hello and welcome to tcs.   i agree with @artnj that there is a very big risk of non-recognition aggression occurring with either your cat, or your former roommate's cat if they are suddenly re-united. as he mentioned, one day separations to the vet or groomer can cause issues between "sibling" cats, when they are re-united.  of course, there is no way to know how they would react, however, if it were me, i think i'd leave jameson home when you go visiting.  here's a tcs article with more info, if you are interested: how to deal with non-recognition aggression in cats  
 i think windows are the bane of an indoor-cat-owner's existence! sometimes you even have to reinforce the window screens with extra wood framing >> e.g. the window screens like these    we had a cat years ago that ran smack into one of those screens during a zoomie episode and crashed right through to the outside! luckily, we lived on the first floor then.  
 thats great you found him!    
 yes it is all perfectly normal. they will settle down as they get older. do they sleep together?  
 another way would be to get them a tall scratching post, this way they can simulate climbing a tree like a young kitten.  
 thanks swaters. salem came to us at 11 weeks, and 4 weeks later tattoo came to us when he was 12 weeks. both were fosters from litters and had spent time with their littermates. we got tattoo because salem really needed a buddy at that age and just wanted to play 24/7. tattoo and him are super bonded and share bath times and comfy spots. and the occasional cuddle. it is rare to see one without the other. the play is fun and they go back and forth on top and chasing with lots of play movement, play meows,and tumbling. claws are sheathed, biting is light but firm.  then after some minutes i hear salem growling, and tattoo mewing of protest and salem is either chomping on his ear or his genetalia. more hurried and vigorous then before.salem, even when super pissed, never ever uses his claws. there is no proofing of fur. salems ears go back a lot even in mock fights and while playing with toys. so his ears are back, but that is not unusual for him. also, salem growls when playing with toys. there has never been hissing between the two. tattoos ears never go back. while they tend to play rough, there is a definate break in play to fight when salem does his growling chompy stuff and tattoo takes off running to hide under something. salem regularly will just come up to tattoo and hold him by his neck for a few minutes to show he is dominant as well. tattoo doesnt seem to care at all when this happens. it should also be noted that when salem is stressed for whatever reason he will seek out tattoo to bully him. i think because tattoo is the only one on the house that'll put up with his crap. salem will also play until he is panting and then play some more. i regularly have to give him time outs because he is overheated and wont stop playing.  
 thank you. i've never had bonded kittens before, so this is a whole new experience for me. and i completely understand about being s better advice giver. i help with cat behavior problems with the humane society. but that's normally the feral, aggressive, abused, peeing on everything guys. normal kitten stuff i'm having to learn as i go.  
 it does sound like they are a bonded pair of kittens and one constantly wants to remind the other he is in charge.   this just reiterates the fact that they are fine and i would just let them be. stop intervening, stop worrying about when you aren't home. they are rowdy teenage boys. let them be.   
 i called the vet’s office yesterday just to give them the rundown, but bowie began playing (hesitantly) with his brother already that morning! they said if i’m super concerned i could bring him in but since there was no swelling or other apparent injury and no changes in eating/peeing behavior, he was good to go and most likely just had a headache or some nervousness following the crashes. bowie’s running and jumping around like normal now    
 you are very welcome!   
 wow, great point! winters get really bad where i am, too. never crossed my mind, ha!  
 i think he feels good. he's hydrated, his cells are fed the nutrients they need, his body is working well, he's eating something that his species loves and he's telling you "thank you"!   
 it is. but usually it's not happy "i feel good" stuff, more like "i don't want to eat/drink/use the box, i walk around crying and lay around when i used to play."    
   i been there. i had a cat years ago that was cuddly, on his terms of course.  a few years later i was shaving and getting ready for the day and he hopped up on the bathroom counter. he got this weird, gleamy, super happy look on his face and i was like "...?" and he launched on my shoulders and face, stuck to my like glue, and i ran around for a second like "this cat is possessed" but turns out he'd just decided being an aloof brat wasn't satisfactory enough, and he wanted to be sweet now. even when pitted against baby girl, the lovebug cat of my life, he takes the cake on affection. my queen bee girl was so aloof that handling her or holding her was not happening. one day she decided to sit next to me, and i pulled her into my lap. she tensed up a little, and once she relaxed she was in kitty heaven.  ...and now she won't leave me alone.  (but i love it. it's nice to be wanted by a little cat that used to give you the bird and walk away whenever you offered pats or praise.)   
 in december of 2017 my 5 1/2 yr old boyz had 3 knock down drag out fights that would have been to the death if i hadn't gotten them separated. this took place over a 4 day period. the first beginning dec 7. the separation was only 3 hours (per my vets advice). the next was 4 days later from 12/7 - 12/11 and the last is ongoing. i have gone to a veterinary cat behaviorist that was life saving for the moment and also had an animal behaviorist come to my home where i also learned so so much. but i believe the main issue is me.  since that very first day i've been traumatized. i was awakened at 5:30 am by my husband screaming from the kitchen to come help him! what i encountered was a nightmare. if you have never experienced a real cat fight i pray you never do. the next two fights i was alone and terrified. i used a bath towel, like i was a matador, to separate them and get one into another room. i say the problem is me ... i have been afraid of animals my entire life. when we adopted these little 5 month old kittens they where exactly what i needed to get over my fears. i can even handle dogs now too. lol then after 5 1/2 years this happened and i've fallen apart.   they have been together a few times but the minute they start to play i freak out and separate them. i need a person who knows how to handle this and me to be here with me and give me support but i don't see that happening. the cost is prohibitive. i'd live like this the rest of my life but my husband would like this to be "normal" again, whatever that is.  my guys are both on kitty prosaic and everything is calm. we take turns with them on each side of the house and they eat in the hallway right beside one another with a 6 foot gate made of rubbermaid shelving end up and tied together. i am retired and my day is spent taking care of them and making sure they each get enough of my attention. however we can't go anywhere overnight because we aren't comfortable for fear of them getting loose if someone came in to feed them.   any suggestions or ideas would be most gratefully accepted.  
 thank you for responding to my message. the cats are both neutered, both born in july 2012 but not the same litter. we adopted both together in dec 2012 when they we 5 1/2 mos old.  i have always taken them to the vet together and in the same carrier.  this started in dec 2017 and i took them to the specialist in may 18 as that was the earliest available. it was a 2 hour visit with both cats. that was when we put them on prozac.  at first we thought redirected aggression but after meeting with the behavior specialist we think it was from the 6 months previous when my husband had a heart attack 07/16/17 and triple bypass on 07/17/17. he came home a week later and for the next 3 months was on the couch because he wasn’t comfortable in the bed. we had homecare coming in at first several times a week and then it tapered off. it was not an easy time for any of us including the cats.  the cats have been on prozac since june and have been together a few times. they seem fine until they start to play a bit. that’s when i get nervous and separate them.  between their vet, the behavior vet the meds and the trainer i’ve spent over $1000. by site swapping do you mean switching them to different rooms? then yes. they take turns every other night sleeping with us and i flip them everyday at least once and sometimes more depending on the days activities. they eat side by side with the gate between them and never is there any aggression shown between the two.  thank you again and perhaps you see why i think i am the problem.   
 thank you so much for your kind and thoughtful reply. it actually brought tears to my eyes because i realize i am the problem and you didn't make me feel badly about myself. i know this is what i have to do. i guess i was just feeling so alone that i thought i would see if there were others out there with experience in this kind of thing. thank you again.   
 thank you for your response. getting info and ideas from others is helping me and the youtube idea is excellent. i will try it for sure.   
 hi! what if you remove the shades temporarily, and maybe also buy one that he can have for his own? hopefully this obsession doesn't last, i'm keeping my fingers crossed for you!!  
 it might be worth a try again, because if you remove them and give him his own, --that's not on a lamp, he will hopefully associate things differently. that's what i had in mind anyway  try cheap ones, you may have to give him more than one.  
 ...you don't have little bugs/gnats that are being attracted to the lights?  
 how would you put the tape on the lamp shade? around the bottom edge, hanging in strips from the bottom? i'm really curious now. i can see the strips hanging down attracting kit, but then when they stick to his paws repulsing him. i guess if it's just around the bottom of the shade, it would just repulse him.  
 hi! can you get him to the vet? the not eating could be stress, but you'd want to be sure it isn't health related. also, you could try playing music; there's classical harp music, the app relax my cat, kusc.org and also musicforcats.com  
 thanks so much for the update, and that's so great to hear the cats are doing well!!  
 about 2 and a half weeks ago we introduced our resident 2 year old rescue to a 3 month old rescue (both girls) and for the first few days our rc didn't eat or go to the bathroom. we could tell she was really stressed, mostly because the kitten was super energetic while she is more skittish. they started playing together through the door, then in the same room, and today they just started cleaning each other. maybe it was just nerves like our cat. she wouldn't touch her favorite treats either for the first few days.  
 @tammy3864: how are things going with your cats?  @b21999999: welcome to tcs! we have a new cats on the block if you'd like to "formally" introduce yourself, and your cats.   
 sounds like an illness, maybe constipation.  
 could this be separation anxiety?  also bengals are high energy cats. if you don't wear them out mentally they destroy your home. i have a terror part siamese punk who if i don't wear him out by letting him 'hunt' birds inmy backyard he bullies his brother and i start fantasizing giving him a reverse mohawk. my point is it may be part health, part separation anxiety and part being a high energy cat. i think a long daily harness walk might help him. he can wear himself out and mark his territory outside.  i love how bengals look but i recognize my limitations and so i will not be getting one. if i was going to get one i would: have a catio first and feed birds outside the outdoor cat enclosure, build tons of vertical space and then add some more, get him a buddy, clicker train him to do tricks and run obstacle courses, adhear to a strict schedule and take him for long daily walks with a harness.  bengals are part wild cats and part our (semi)domesticated housecats. so you still have that wild jungle cat that must hunt, catch, groom & eat. they have many perks but their breed is very demanding. when i hear people talking about bengals like they are adorable house cats you can buy i want to tell their future owners what they are getting themselves into. you can breed a wolf with a dog but they do not make good household pets and they have very strong requirements to make it work. bengals are the feline equivalent of a wolf dog/wolf hybrid.    
 hello all.  i need some advice for some behavioral issues i'm currently having between my cats. i have three: ralph (male), who was adopted first almost two years ago, a standard slightly-fluffy black cat, and bear (male) and prinnie (female), who were adopted together about a year ago, brother and sister siberians. they are all between three and four years-old.   a little bit about their personalities.   ralph is very calm and laid back. he likes to play, loves his human mom and i think he was a former feral, as he has an ear tip. the rescue said he was left behind when his previous owner moved. he was very timid and shy when we first got him and it took him over a year until he even let me pick him up. the worst thing ralph does is scratch the couch occasionally.  bear is extremely talkative and likes to have things his way. he climbs on the kitchen counter, scratches up the door trim and wails down in the basement where the litter boxes are because half the basement is closed off to the cats. he also will climb on top of me multiple times during the night and press his face against mine and knead my beard until i wake up and pet him. he is very demanding and in a word, insane, but in a good way.   prinnie is less talkative than her brother bear but she is right there to greet my wife and i when we get home from work. she is pretty laid-back like ralph and loves to climb to the top of the cat tree. she loves getting pets and loves her human dad (me) and will often become my shadow, following me from room to room and lying on my lap or flopping down in front of me so that i will reach down and rub her belly. she also loves her cardboard scratchers.  we got bear and prinnie while looking to adopt a friend for ralph because my wife fell in love with bear, who despite being in a tiny rescue enclosure, put on quite the display every time we went and visited, while prinnie just sat in her litter box looking very depressed. we didn't want someone to separate them so we brought them both home.  the problem i'm having is prinnie will chase ralph several times a day, randomly and seemingly out of nowhere, oftentimes ending in her swatting ralph and her screaming like a banshee and hissing at him. she has never drawn blood and ralph never retaliates. he just runs away into another room to get away from her. days can go by where it doesn't happen and she will go up to him and sniff him or lick him or lay by him with no issues. but it seems like these episodes are making ralph tip-toe around the house when she's near him because no one knows when prinnie will turn into prinnzilla and attack him.  we live in a huge condo complex and while it's generally very calm in our condo, prinnie seems to get paranoid whenever she will hear a noise from next door. it's also become very apparent that people are dumping cats around here, because i've counted at least 10 since the winter, many who are friendly and come up to the front door to interact with our cats. whenever one of the outdoor cats comes to the door, prinnie growls at it and then chases ralph and attacks him.  my wife gets up with the cats around 5 a.m. and this morning prinnie has been relentless, chasing ralph constantly, again and again. she even chased off bear, which she never really does. i don't know what has gotten into her. i have put her in the guest bedroom for now. despite this, ralph still wants to be around her and will go lay by the guest bedroom door. i'm worried to even leave her out with the other two when i go to work.  does anyone have any suggestions? i'm trying to be calm with her and pet and talk to her but it's been a very frustrating morning and i want to break her of this. she is the absolute sweetest cat otherwise.  i apologize for the novel, i just wanted to give sufficient background on my situation. thanks for the help!  
 another question- are cays visual animals? in the sense that if monty can see us playing with the kitten through the door, will that help him understand the kitten is good?  
 i think you're on the right track. by the way, after things have settled down, can you start giving him more canned food? think of a daily ratio of 2/3 wet to 1/3 dry, something like that   
 how long have misha and oscar been neutered? how old are they now, and how old were they when they were neutered? sometimes the hormones can linger in the body for months, especially if they were older when they got neutered. the instinct to mate, does not always go away even after getting neutered, but hopefully in a few months they will calm down.  is the sexual aggression the only type of aggression they display? and is it only towards the two females? i ask because the fact that oscar poops outside the box and if there are other behavior problems as well, it could be health or stressed related.  
 well if they are displaying aggression in other forms, i would suspect there is more going on. first and foremost, have they been seen by a vet to rule out an illness, or pain? second, it seems their aggression is dominance / territorial related.  building confidence in a cat, especially when there are so many, is important. they all need to feel safe and secure. the thing is, a cat without confidence can act out with stressful aggression, or by being scared and timid. and when you have multiple cats who display both, it then becomes a vicious cycle. the "bully" is stressed, so acts out on the others, which stressed them out, and they play victim, which invites the "bully" to continue. to build confidence, requires a few things, here are some examples that you can try. i would try to do my best in providing multiple vertical perches and areas around the house so all the cats can feel they have territory, without having to fight for it. to do that you can strategically place your furniture around your home, with cat perches mounted on the wall in between to crate a cat highway. and of course, many sleeping quarters and cat trees too. doing this also provides different escape routes and safe passage to avoid the "bully" for the "victims". i know you have quite a few cats, but it is recommended that there be one litter box per cat plus one extra. that is kinda the rule of thumb, although i understand if you don't want 11 litter boxes strewed about your house. when it comes to oscar though, that may help him, so he does not feel like he is "sharing" with anyone else. play time is also very important. they need to play until they are good and panting, a couple times a day. with so many cats, that will be time consuming, but hopefully play time will include more than one cat at a time. getting an aggressive cat to play along a timid cat can also help, because they will learn to be on the same playing field, and associate each other as playmates and not have the "bully/victim" relationship. when play time is done, they get a treat or a small or full meal (depending on the schedule you keep/start) that way it completes the hunt, catch, eat,(then sleep) instinct they have. you could also place feliway diffusers around your home, they emit "good feeling" pheromones that can help a stressed out cat. they also have collars and sprays too, if you want to target a specific cat or area......  i gotta go make dinner, so i'll come back when i think of more ok?  
 hi! being spayed, and when the kittens are weaned (try and give them 10-11 weeks with mama, they'll be the better for it as cats  ) should make a difference. hang in there!!   
 once our cat's kittens were about 13 lbs each, mom would let other cats approach them. supervised play. she kept an ear out for any sounds of distress their entire lives. once when one was in his teens a neighbor's cat hissed at him through the screen door. mom came flying through the house and hit the metal frame door hard enough to bend it out in a v. the neighbor's cat didn't visit again. mom remained protective their entire lives and not much interested in new kits we acquired.  
 hi, my cousin's cat is having some weird issues, so i thought i'd reach out on their behalf. here's the issue: about once a month (3-5 weeks in between) he takes a poop in the bed. before he poops he runs around kind of irritated, he then jumps in to bed, and gets up next to his human, but instead of purring and being nice, he poops.  he is 9-10 years old (+/- 2yrs, it's not my cat, so i don't know). he has moved around a little bit in his life, most recently he lived at my cousins girlfriends (to get more attention, cousin works a lot), but then suddenly he started doing the pooping in the bed thing (first incidents happened here). at the girlfriends place he was living with another cat, but no infighting reportedly..  due to the poop thing stressing her out, he's come back to live with my cousin. in the beginning it was fine and dandy, but then suddenly he started the bed pooping. it was when this happened at his place, that he noticed how his cat seemed irritated and energetic in a bad way, just before he would come up and do the dirty stuff.  he's been to the vet, who said nothing's wrong. but it's was only an external examination. should he have him checked for parasites?  lately my cousin has had renovation in the kitchen and such. is it the stress of the guys coming and going (he's kept in a room with food, water, and litter box when they're there)?  he has been clean his entire life, he still uses the litter box for both peeing and pooping and he's still eating and drinking healthily.  besides taking him to the vet, my cousin also bought some new and better quality wet food (he gets a combination of wet and dry).  does anyone know what could be going on? or maybe someone experienced something similar? i have done my googlesearches, but the results seem to be cats who poop in the bed regularly, and of not regularly, then at times where the stress is obvious.  
 my cat maggie poops around the house when she's constipated. maybe increase canned food or try some hairball paste or treats, this can help with constipation.  
 hello all, this is my first post on this board and will be a bit lengthy, but i'm very worried about my baby and need some advice. i've had my cat louie since he was found abandoned at around 3 weeks old. i bottle fed him and took care of him and according to the vet he basically sees me as his mommy. i got him while i was still living with my parents, and once he got big enough my dad wouldn't allow me to keep him inside, so he became an outside cat at about 6 months old. he is neutered and he's always been incredibly affectionate with me; he loves snuggling, being held, purrs like crazy, never uses claws when we play, etc. just a very sweet cat.  he's about a year and a half old now, and about a month ago i brought him to live in my new apartment with me. my roommate also has a cat, harold, who i've been trying to slowly introduce him to without much success. for the first couple weeks louie, although he didn't want to be around harold, was content to stay in my room and continued to be his sweet snuggly self with me. but about a week ago he changed and started being very stand-offish, biting me when i try to hold him, attacking me when i try to pet him, etc. he would climb on my chest when i was laying down (his favorite way to snuggle) and let me pet him for just a minute and then suddenly stop purring and just start biting the crap out of my arm. i had tried bringing harold into my room to get louie used to his scent, so i thought maybe that was the issue and disinfected everything to try and get the smell out of the room, and he calmed down for a couple of days, but now he seems to be starting up again. i thought maybe he was bored so i got him new toys and tried playing with him more one-on-one, etc., but for the most part he doesn't seem super interested in playing any more than normal. he just doesn't seem to want me to hold him. he'll lay on my legs while i sleep but if i try to pull him up to my chest to cuddle or try to pet him he meows and runs away.  i'm not sure if harold is the cause, because my roommate leaves for days at a time and he'll get bored, make noise in the living room, meow early in the morning, etc. i thought maybe this was stressing louie out, but he's not exhibiting any of the typical signs of cat stress (meowing excessively, digestive issues, lack of appetite, etc.). he's still eating and drinking normally and his litterbox behavior has been consistent since he moved in, but he does seem very restless. i don't hardly ever catch him just peacefully napping.  i know this is lengthy but he's never acted like this before. this morning i tried to pick him up and he actually used claws, which he never does. i'm not sure if he's bored and misses outside or if it's redirected aggression as a result of the other cat or if he may be sick, but i'm really worried about him and i just want my baby back to normal. any help anyone can give would be so so so appreciated.  
 hi, welcome!  can you run him to a vet, just to be sure he's otherwise ok?  also try a calming product, there are a lot on the market with a wide variety of ingredients, casein, tryptophan, valerian, chamomile...  maybe there will something helpful here; how to fix an unsuccessful cat introduction   how to deal with non-recognition aggression in cats  how to successfully introduce cats: the ultimate guide  
 hi there,  i’m desperately looking for advice/help with our little bengal and a behavioural issue that’s been ongoing for almost a year.   around last october/november she began pooping on the suite in the living room. initially we think she only did it if anyone came round to the house which is why i think it’s a territorial thing however now she’s doing it daily.   she will come over to any visitor and demand cuddles and purr away then she’ll nip off and poop on the suite (sometimes while looking straight at us). she makes no attempt to cover her poops either in or out of the tray.  she isn’t avoiding her trays, she’s still going in them. now she’s just going where she shouldn’t whenever she feels like it. i think it’s become a habit that’s started with her showing visitors the house is hers...  we’re absolutely at our wits end with it as we’re now cleaning constantly and nothing we’ve tried has worked.   we have been chatting to the breeder who’s been great but works long shifts so regular communication is a little difficult and i now feel like i’m just nagging the poor guy to death! when we have talked he’s also a bit stumped on what to do.  she’s just over a year old. neutered. fit and healthy (checked out by the vet regularly due to what’s been going on). eats and drinks well. loves people (she instantly sits on visitors knees and has a cuddle). she has 3 large open litter trays. constant access to fresh water.  is given loads of attention.  stuff we’ve tried. cleaning with multiple brands of enzyme cleaners (we’ve spent a fortune on all the professional brands that have been recommended on various sites/by vets/breeders etc).  different litter. different litter trays. confinement to one room (we had no luck with that but won’t be able to try it again due to the noise she makes driving our neighbour crazy and keeping her little one awake all night). feliway diffusers. calming tablets. covering the areas where she poops (she just finds a new area to do it).   we’re unable to stop her entering the room it happens in as other than the bedrooms and the bathroom the whole house is open plan and confining her to one room isn’t an option again.   currently we’re living with all the blinds/curtains closed so she can’t see any possible threats outside, we’re not allowing anyone in to the house and we’re scrubbing the suite and anywhere else she goes multiple times a day. it’s no way to live for her or us and it’s been this way for what feels like an eternity.  i’ve looked for advice online but nothing fits as there have been no changes, she’s been neutered, she’s healthy etc and the advice offered doesn’t seem to work (mostly it seems to be relevant to cats not using their trays or where something stressful has happened). we’ve had her since a kitten and we know nothing has happened with regards to anyone visiting as we’ve been present the whole time.   our vet is also stumped. he thinks she may be “middening” but the advice given for that hasn’t worked either.  we’re absolutely desperate so any suggestions would be hugely appreciated!  
 um. well, middening is certainly a possiblility. since you say that she is confident and likes people, this would seem more from dominance than from stress, although i could be wrong about that. stress can come from all sorts of strange sources. i'm a bit at a loss, although you could try giving her chamomile tea. it relaxes and calms with out sedating, and will reduce stress, and might help with dominance. use the bags from the grocery store, so you know you have german chamomile (not toxic for cats in proper doses) rather than english chamomile (toxic to cats). brew a cup and administer...let me think...normally i suggest 1-3 teaspoonfuls, but she's a bengal, so she's a big girl. go with 1-2 tablespoonfuls 3 times a day, via syringe.  
 i've actually heard that some cats will eliminate on the bed of someone to show they love them, because in cats' culture, this is one way they have to show this! (yeah, i know. it sounds weird. but that's what i heard.)  also, cats' preference in their natural state is for sandy substrate. i can't imagine a cat liking those pellets, crystals, scented litters, etc. we have always used sophresh unscented scoopable. it has the texture they prefer, and no horrible fake scent. it has worked very well for many, many cats in our family.  
 as i frequently say to my three: "who likes a wet cat? least of all, a wet cat!"    
 i think yes, something happened that scared your baby, and given a little time he should be fine, but let him work it out   
 i will definitely try it out! it’s my first time owning cats so i was very startled! thank you so much for the response, it’s very appreciated!   
 hello, i'm callie and our family has a serious problem.  our cat, mouse, pees. out of hate. we know it's not a bladder problem; she gets constant check-ups. for the longest time, she has peed downstairs on linens and couches when she felt like it. we have a litter box down there that is regularly scooped but she pees anyway. it reeks down there. however, she has begun to pee upstairs- on the floor, on the fireplace, etc. just today we found that she had peed on a book shelf and our books. my mother and father are at a breaking point but we don't know what to do. my mother suggested getting rid of her and i thought it would help to make her an outside cat. however, neither choice would be the best for our situation and we are at odds at what to do. we try to put her out every night but she still finds a way to pee on our stuff if she's having a "bad day". also, we have tried giving her prozac for her temper as recommended by the vet, but no luck. please help!  
 yea... cats don't have the same kind of emotions as we do. they don't retroactively think 'you did this, so i'm going to do that to you.' and even if they did, the cat would have no idea that peeing on things is a good way to get back at you. cats don't pee on each others things to get back at one another. xd  something is wrong, whether it be uti, cancer, pain, who knows. find a new vet/a pet behaviorist and keep trying.  
 is her litter box really clean? you should be cleaning it every day. cats have to have a clean litter box. have you changed kitty litter lately? that could do it too.   begin with the obvious and go from there. if you kitty is not an outdoor cat you should not be putting her out at night. although mouse has had regular check-ups, that does not mean there isn't a health issue going on right now.  she should see the vet.   one more thing; if you haven't cleaned up the areas she has peed in anywhere in the house, up or down, she will continue to go there.  
 yayi- i dunno, can females spray? i thought that was a male thing- all of our kitties are girls. he don't see any strays around much. he used to have an evil himilayan that roamed the hood, but i think he died, and they did not spray as much back then as they do now! there are 2 male cats owned by our neighbors, and occasionally edgar (one of them) goes into our garage, but not our house, to steal food. could that be it?  
 i don't mean to be disagreeable, but are y'all sure cats never pee to express displeasure?  i used to come for visits to a friends' house and stay for a week or so several times a year. she had two female cats. one of her cats would always always pee on my clothes if she could get to them. if i kept everything in the suitcase and the case sealed, all was well. once i left the zipper slightly unzipped and she climbed inside and peed on my things. never on my shoes or anything else. and to be fair, i don't think the cat disliked me. i never figured out why she did this.   but i add to that another story. after my divorce, the ex kept the cats. all was well for several years, then a woman moved in. she claimed to be an animal lover, but from stories i heard, she clearly had it in for one of the cats (well, both actually ... the male escaped and was run over). but the female started peeing on everything the woman owned, and she finally called me one day and said my ex husband was allergic to the cat and if i didn't take it that day they were taking it to the pound.   i wasn't allowed to have a cat at my rented home, but i was planning to move anyway so i took the cat and kept her in the garage for a few days until i got a new place lined up. she was fine again and never peed on anything she shouldn't after i took her back.   i really, really think the cat disliked the woman and peed on her things to express that. don't you all think such a thing is possible?  (and if it matters to the discussion, she was the fourth or fifth woman to move in after the divorce so it wasn't just suddenly a new person is there for the first time)  
 welcome to tcs, leocallie2!   as others have already mentioned, cats aren't capable of engaging in a specific behavior out of revenge; conceptually, it's simply beyond their abilities.  to pee in spite, revenge or anger, a cat must first be angry about an act, then attribute the cause of that act to you, then decide to cause you the same bad feeling it has (impossible conceptual link here), then recognize that peeing outside the litter box is something that would cause you the same anger it's feeling / pay you back (impossible conceptual link here).  this kind of reasoning just isn't possible for cats.  there are many other reasons your kitty could be eliminating inappropriately, however: stress, habit, territory marking, pain, dementia, and more.   in fact, peeing in places she could potentially find comforting (anything that smells of you and whomever she has bonded with) is a classic reaction to stress. a single short-term incident could have set her off, then the behavior could have became a habit even though the incident itself was resolved.   if it's stress-related, feliway might help. you'll need one plug-in per averaged-sized room (amazon.com often has great prices on multi-packs).  how many litter boxes do you have and where are they located?   hmmm, has mouse been spayed? if not, she could very well be spraying. is the urine you're finding mostly on the floor, or on the floor and the walls? another cat entering her territory could definitely cause her to mark it vigorously as hers.  if i were you, i would also have mouse rechecked by a vet, specifically for urinary tract-related issues; maybe the level of infection was too low to catch the last time or maybe it's some kind of irritation vs an actual infection. it's happened many times before, and there are currently active stories of tcs members whose kitties have medical issues that are causing their inappropriate elimination.  you might also consider bringing mouse in and making her a full-time indoor kitty. it may help with her territory issues (other cats can't get into the house so she'll no longer have to fight with them over her food) and it'll definitely be safer for her. in addition, you could also retrain her to the litter box, as described in the sticky "inappropriate peeing problems answered". cat attract litter is highly recommended in these situations, as well.  i hope you're able to get to the bottom of this soon! this is a really difficult problem to deal with. kudos to you for researching ways to address it!   ac  
 hey, sorry i haven't been replying recently.  anyhow, we went into the brother's room with the blacklight and yes it was terrible. we scrubbed each glowy spot we could find with resolve first and then nature's miracle or get serious. problem is- they don't seem to be working. neither of them get that "glow" away. is that permanent, no matter what you do? do the pheromones go and the spot stains stay as an ugly reminder? my mother is scarred and hopeless and i'm grasping at straws.   is there a product or home remedy that gets rid of that "glow"?  
 nature's miracle does not work - i suggest you get nok out. really really dump it there - get it by the gallon. do not scrub. dump (spraying does nothing - you really want to get it in there), leave for an hour or so, remove the excess with a cloth or a paper towel, and then leave it air-drying. it can take up to 2 weeks for the enzymes to eat through the urine - it is imperative to air dry it so the enzymes have the time to destroy the odor causing bacteria and agents in the urine. while it is drying, do not let the cat access the area.... cover it with aluminum foil, or an upside down computer mat (has the spikes)...  it is not the scrubbing that cleans - it is the enzymes - they literally "eat" the urine.   
 sounds good!  we currently have 3 cats (mouse, butterfly, ti), and that is why we have the 3 boxes. mouse and butterfly are sisters but currently hate each other. that is what i think they are peeing about- too much mean girl energy!  also, my mother just told me that until nok out arrives in the mail, she wants to start with another product. she mentioned 2- bissell pet stain and odor remover and urine out. do these work in the same way that nok out does, and are they any good?  thanks!  
 i've noticed over the years that when my cats pee outside of their box it is almost always health related. hemmy had a bad bout with uti's, seti makes crystals by the bucket load (it took 2 tests to find that even though they are plentiful) and friday has renal failure, all of which caused each cat to pee outside of the box. it's worth exhausting medical issues with your vet because if it is a medical problem you won't fix the inappropriate elimination until that is resolved.  how long have the two sisters not gotten along? did the urination upstairs coincide with their animosity? weirdly, i found that da bird was a great way to get my two "enemies" to play together and that seems to have helped bring some peace in our house.   do get the feliway and the cat attract. i personally haven't had much luck with any enzyme cleaner so my advice is worthless on that front.  
 we don't really know when they started to hate each other, i'm really not sure.   
 well, hmm, where did you expect him to go if he was locked in a room with no litterbox? and cats who pee in cars on the way to the vet are scared, not spiteful :/. have a little empathy.  
 my wife seems to think our two-year old male neutered cat pees on our guest bed out of spite. i didn't think cats could make that connection. but because he jumps into bed at night and wakes us up once and a while when we need our sleep she shuts the door. so she got up during the night and he followed her out and then got mad when she closed the door on him. he peed on the guest bed that night. he started peeing on it last year when a guest brought their cat and he was trying to take over. when they left our cat peed on the bed...multiple times. we got him tested for crystals and treated for them, and now he has special food that takes care of the crystals. we've washed the bed, it's got a mattress cover and was a new mattress too and i don't believe the mattress would still smell like the strange cat.  anyway, he like being around us so when we don't let him stay in the room he seems to get mad....regardless of anyone's psychological theories that's what it seems like, there is a direct link. not sure whether to provide negative stimulus or just keep that door closed. he hasn't peed on clothes or anywhere else than that bed. i put a sheet of plastic on it and he didn't pee on it for a while, until he 'got mad' last night.  
 i'll start by saying that i disagree with the general wisdom that cats are incapable of feeling angry and acting out in response.   the more we learn, the more we're discovering that the mental world of cats, dogs, and other mammals is a lot more like ours than we originally believed. cats and dogs feel anxiety, aggression, dislike/hate, jealousy, and love. we even can treat disorders of aggression and anxiety with many of the same drugs that we use on humans, and generally get similar results.  obviously the emotions aren't as complex as those of most adult humans, but they tend to match up fairly well in many cases to those of human toddlers, and toddlers are capable of "tantrum" type behaviors.  with that said, cats tend to throw tantrums by knocking things over, going places they know you don't want them, "screaming", and swatting or biting people, not urinating outside the litter box.  if a cat urinates or defecates outside of their liter box, it nearly always means that the box is dirty, the cat is physically or psychologically unwell, or that the cat believes that the litter box is an unsafe place (most frequently because a different cat in the house attacks them when they use it.)  
 he is so cute!! i’m not sure about the kitten proofing, but i think that you may have to do so something with the table, since i noticed that cats are very into jumping up on things in a platform sort of way. whenever my kitty jumps up somewhere she is not supposed to be, the cause is often because we have furniture moved where she can jump from one to the other. hopefully you have some room on the side, because i really like your furniture!  
 actually, if you can rig something with an inward-facing 45 degree angle, about 18" deep, your cat probably won't attempt to get over it. be sure there is no furniture near enough for him to make the jump to the top of the barrier, though.  
 just in case anyone was curious on an update, after much thought and debate, i went to my local hardware store and bought 10m of plastic chicken fencing and tied it around the balcony with cable ties and bamboo sticks to make them stay more upright.  isn't the prettiest thing in the world but does the trick until i can think of something better and now bruce can enjoy the outdoors as much as he wants!  and this is what he looks like now - gotten so big, so fast!     
 my female gray tabby, ophelia, is 3 years old (10.8 lbs). she’s never had health issues and is a healthy cat. prefers dry food over wet. on occasion will consume wet food. always drinks a lot of water (i believe due to her dry food intake).   we previously moved out of an apartment with one roommate and a female russian blue cat. we only lived with the other cat for one year. the cats “bickered” or sometimes were territorial, but were fine with one another at the end of the day. ophelia has a “queen” personality while the other cat did not. the other cat would act afraid of ophelia and cower around her.   then we moved into my boyfriends similar sized (less number of rooms) apartment with no additional pets. fast forward and ophelia has been staying with me at my boyfriends apartment for ~4-6 weeks prior to my “official” move without issue. meaning, prior to my boxes “officially” moving into his place. ophelia lived there even when i stayed at my old apartment without her. (note: no change in diet, litter, litter mat, toys, etc.)  after ophelia lived in the bf’s apartment and i officially moved boxes in, she began to use/enter her litter box 17-24+ times per day. there were times i came home from work and over a 2 hour period she would use/enter/scratch the litter box 12-17 times without urinating or defecating.   i took her to the vet who suggested buprenorphine (pain killer and relaxant) due to potential inflammation from stress. fyi, ophelia had no urine to culture at the time and we were going to wait on buprenorphine results before x-raying for stones. the vet also suggested i ensure to have “spots” for her since i moved additional items into the apartment.  she got better, however on the meds she wasn’t eating, drinking, or really needing to use the litter box at all. after a week and once the meds wore off, ophelia was back to using the litter box 17+ times per day.   we went to the vet again and had a chance to get x-rays and urine sample. no stones and currently waiting on the urine sample. i was sent home with more buprenorphine for a longer period of time. if she has a uti we will treat with antibiotics.   i’d like to point out her nails were longer before the vet cut them this second time around. could long cat nails cause additional stress or pain regarding litter box use?  ever since her nails were cut, she’s been even more chipper than before. before this second vet visit, she was still playful but also “anal” about keeping her paws clean. she would get into the bathtub after my showers and essentially clean herself. now she is much more relaxed regarding her paws.   ophelia’s symptoms sound behavioral to me but i wanted to reach out for any similar experiences. she’s had zero accidents outside of the litter box. my bf and i are also moving into a larger apartment month end and i’m worried again for another change.  
 same thing happened with my cats. i have to make sure they get enough canned food every day, at least 4 1/2 ounces, and i have to keep the dry food under half a cup or the pee problems start.   
 do you have scratchers set up yet and does she use them? have the litter box visits decreased since nail trimming? if the urinalysis comes back clear and litter box time is back to normal i wonder if she was trying to use the litter to ease pain related to walking on nails that were longer than comfortable.  good luck to you and ophelia!    
 i am kinda getting at my wits end here. i love my cat to death, and it worries the h### out of me. lately, the past week or so, whenever she goes pee, she just walks halfway into her box to where she can smell her litter, then she just pops a squat with her butt hanging on the edge...usually making a big mess. when she poops, she goes in the middle of the box, so no issue with pooping. she has two boxes, and i clean them both daily...sometimes twice a day. she is a 14 yo tabby calico named tabitha. i know she is getting up there in age,so is this natural that they will just 'miss' the box? i watched her do it twice in a row. i scrubbed and cleaned the area/side of the box where she peed over, so she hopefully won't smell it and go there again. i have recently changed boxes,the one she started peeing over the edge was a covered generic litter box. she is a pretty big cat, so it is a tight space in there for her. so i changed that to an open box which is much bigger. but i saw her do the same thing in that one-just walked over the edge and popped a squat half way in,making a mess outside the box. so i built a retaining wall around the area where she enters(the backside of the box is against the wall), so now she has to jump over the wall to enter the box. it has seemed to work so far, but it has only been a couple of days. any insight would be greatly appreciated, thanks!   
 this is a long shot but we had the opposite problem (weird box missing pooper) and his spine was very much out of alignment. a few visits to a cat chiropractor and he stopped.  the vet was never sure but suggested that there might be some mild arthritis in his back. he's almost prissy about cleanliness, so he would get all the way into the box to pee but pooping outside the box didn't seem to bother him as much, and he was willing to skip whatever mild discomfort he had to poop but peeing was messier on his paws so he learned to pee in the box, poop outside. shot in the dark, but hey...worth a mention maybe.   
 good idea! if you notice she stops jumping and peeing outside the box, get to a vet though!   
 yea, when i first got here at 1 month old, she developed struvite crystals and was peeing outside the box. she has been fine ever since. thanks.  
 if she hasn't had a health check for a while i'd strongly recommend you take her for one soon. 14 is quite old for a cat. as well as weakening bladder control cats can suffer from a whole range of health issues as they get older. they can get heart problems, kidney problems, hyperthyroidism, diabetes, dementia... all the kinds of health problems people get as they age.  take her to your vet and get a full health check and blood work done, so they can make sure all her organs are functioning as they should. if you catch any problems early on it's much easier to treat them before they develop into major issues.  
 you know, i thought about one of those heartbeat toys too...what about using a ticking clock instead? if it's a bit too loud you could always muffle it with a small towel wrapped around it.  
 no, but perhaps something lighter, like a baby onesie that is lighter may not bother him as much  
 hello and welcome to tcs. sorry your cats are suddenly "enemies". it sounds like possibly re-directed aggression, where something happened that startled/frightened one of your cats and he is blaming the other.   here's a tcs article with more info: re-directed aggression in cats  fingers crossed things get back to normal soon.   
 my 1 1/4 year old cat has a strange "habit" that i cannot find an answer to. on occassion, when he's very content(usually early morning), purring & kneading, he gets a runny nose. he doesn't have a cold or any allergies and it only occurs when he's very content. not being an experienced cat owner, i never heard of such a behavior. i've searched with no luck whatsoever in finding an answer. does anyone here have a cat that does this or know why it happens. thanks in advance for any help!!!!!!  btw- i was a confirmed "cat disliker" but my heart was stolen by a little white ball of fur, who is now my best buddy.  thanks, gunther  
 welcome to this site gunther   i also have a few cats they drool when happy and content . but no runny nose . sorry no help here .  
 it's definitely coming from his nose. i watched it saturday morning!!! it's so funny to me. i must have a unique kitty,with his weird habit. thanks to you both for responding. hopefully someone here will read this who has a cat with the same quirk.  thanks again, gunther  
 yeah, it's definitely clear, only during cuddling and no signs of a cold. he breathes wonderfully and is usually purring quite loudly. i'm glad someone else has a kitty that does this. it's kind of "icky cool". he does the druggy eyes thing too! i love him sooo much that i don't mind that he needs his loving  very early in the morning. i put up with it because he's not a  "lap kitty" except during these times and we get to bond. i don't know who enjoys it more!!!!!  thanks a bunch for letting me know that my boy is not a freak....  gunther  
  anytime. some quirks just less common than others   thankfully ginza waits for his cuddles/dripping until i wake. otoh, he sometimes forgets we have feet, so protects us by killing the 'evil creatures' under the covers, and always around 3-4am. gets a real good chomp on our big toes, too.  it's such a large cat community that it's really great to compare notes and you're bound to run into more cats that are like yours! when you check out back posts, you will laugh your head off at some of the antics/quirks!! and  at others.  
 hi --  we have 2 other staircases, and they have no problem with those. the only difference with the basement stairs is they are open. there could be a smell, but i don't think that's the problem -- they like to hang out on the landing at the top of the stairs and look down, if fact it looks like they _want_ to go down, but become hesitant about actually going on the stairs. we only brought them down once "against their will" and don't plan to do it again.  what if we covered the open part of the back of the stairs with paper so they couldn't see through?  keith  
 i'm going to agree that it's probably smell, there could even be weird sounds down there - water pipes.  have you ever noticed that some people are afraid of basements for no reason? even when there's absolutely nothing down there to fear, maybe it can be the same with cats. or maybe the cats know something you don't, make sure there's not a carbon monoxide from a furnace or water heater if you use gas.  if they don't like it don't force them. besides, when you put the litter box in an out of the way place, such as a basement, you may be setting yourself up for accidents. at least one litter box for every floor the cats are on is best. if smell is an issue, try different litters and scoop more.   
 maybe its haunted  
 i thought the same thing, but, did not want to say anything.   
 i thought the same thing.    
 i was thinking the same thing that courtney_ou and ddcats were.  i myself think basements and to some degree attics are creepy and scary if they don't have every corner brightly lit. on the few occasions i was around open stairs they were only half way open(the top half had a cement wall under them) and she didn't have a problem. i don't like them but she really didn't mind. i like the feeding them on the stairs thing. my cat has always liked to crawl under the house so i doubt she would have a problem with a basement and if i had a attic with easy access she would love it.  
 i would definitely have professionals come out to look for the leaks. once when we moved, one of our cats, who liked to be with us almost all the time refused to come upstairs. he fought being brought upstairs even though he was one of the bed cats.   it turned out there was a gas leak so slight that we humans couldn't smell it. the other cats took our actions over their sense of smell. the gas company found the leak and it was fixed. the cat who refused to come upstairs started coming up stairs.  the paranormal is always possible but check the material first.  depending on where you are, you might want to have a specialist in critters come out to check and see if any one has set up housekeeping below your basement.  
 we don't often give him milk but he loves it but my question is, is my basement haunted?  
 no problem but yes electricians checked it and...nothing.  
 i think this is behavior. i'm looking for tips. my mom has a semi-feral who uses the yards as a litter box but when confined to a room he had no issues using a litterbox with clumping litter. so finally after years of trying to get her to agree to keep him at night, she bought a new automatic litter box with crystals in it. i know it is just a case of ignoring him and getting him used to being in at night. what can be done to get him to use the box? when i stick him in it, he panics a little and jumps right out.   would unplugging the automatic part for now help?   should he get used to clumping litter in the new box first? or try mixing the clumping with the crystal litter? (it has a pad underneath it that absorbs the cat pee.... but pick your battles and all that.) any ideas to help this semi-feral boy transfer to a house cat with day time outdoor access?  
 these mc's can sulk alright. when i see that tiger i'll give him a piece of my mind!  oliver says ha ha.  
 i’m a first time cat owner who’s still pretty new to reading cats. sometimes i unintentionally do something that gets my cat angry and she gets aggressive. today i was giving her treats, and right after i reached to pet her head but it spooked her out. instead of running and hiding in these situations she kind of stalks me and tries to attack me when i walk away. when something like this occurs what should i do? as of now i put her in her safe room for her to cool down a bit. also, can cats be similar to dogs in which they assert dominance over their owners if they sense weakness?  
 your cat doesn’t seem angry as much as fearful. while some fearful cats will hide, others will lash out to protect themselves. there may be something about you trying to touch her head that scares her. if she starts to get aggressive i would try backing slowly away from her while talking to her in a soft and soothing voice. if you need to use a throw pillow to block your legs so that if she does come forward she can’t reach you. definitely you don’t want to pick her up just let her calm herself down.  
 what is the story/background of your cat? origin? former feral or stray? age? has your cat been neutered?   tcs members need this information make further comments and advice.  
 thanks for the advice! she’s normally really great with me showing her affection on her head or body. i have noticed she gets spooked really easily and will follow me and try to swat at me, but nothing too aggressive. i’ll try talking to her next time too   
 normal cat behavior. protecting his food and hiding it for later. in the wild he wouldn't want predators to find it or him.  
 @erin80 , here's one recent thread similar to yours: why-does-my-cat-try-bury-her-food-dish.381304  
 hello!  so about a week ago i adopted a 13 week old kitten. i had been contemplating adding a second cat to my house for about 6 months or so as my resident cat would cry loudly when i left for work in the morning and when i came home. he's 2 years old, but is still a very energetic boy. he can easily play for 2-4 hours in a day (not straight, but total) if given the chance, but my dear kitty boy was extremely clingy... he hated playing alone and would mostly only play when i played with him (chase and wands are his favorite). he was so clingy he would get quite upset if i left him on weekends as he expected me to spend those days entirely playing and lounging with him. after doing some research i thought maybe if he had a kitty friend that would alleviate some of this behavior, specifically because when i adopted him (he was 8 months) he had been living with a woman and was quite bonded to her cat, so much so that he continuously followed the other cat around when i first met him and tried to interact with him. i even witnessed him cuddling with her cat!  naturally, because of his previous behavior i assumed he would welcome a new cat with open arms, so i adopted my brand, new little kitten with high hopes, but decided to play it safe and do a slow introduction. i separated them completely for the first day, but as soon as i brought the new kitten home, my resident cat new something was amiss. he could smell the new kitten on my hands and for the first time ever hissed at me and even bopped me with his paw!  even with the kitten locked in the bathroom my cat was not pleased at all, but i persisted in trying to make things work. i separated the two with a baby gate and started playing with the kitten where my cat could see us play. by day 4, i let them meet as there wasn't any hissing/growling through the baby gate or door at this point.  the introduction didn't involve any hissing or growling, but my cat seemed rather indifferent and started acting depressed and ignoring me and the kitten almost completely. by day 5 my cat and the kitten had begun playing together, but my cat doesn't want to play with the kitten for very long and he still acts relatively depressed. it's been an entire week now and my cat still doesn't seem to like the new kitten. he'll play with him briefly, but spends most of his time ignoring me and the kitten. before my cat was extremely clingy and now he acts like i've ruined his life! he refuses to get on the couch when the kitten and i are lounging on the couch together and will not join in any games between the kitten and i. he'll play with me individually or with the kitten (briefly) but he doesn't seem to want to be around the kitten at all!  it's difficult because when i put the kitten up, my cat gets really happy and more affectionate with me, unfortunately, the kitten is super clingy with me and constantly follows me and wants me to pick him up and hold him. basically both boys want my attention but my resident cat wants only my attention where as the kitten seems fine with my cat and wants to be around me.  my question is... how normal is this behavior? i had read a lot of information about this but most of the time people have complained of hissing and growling between the cats whereas in my case there isn't a lot of violence involved, just dislike on my cat's part? so is this normal? will my cat forgive me? why does my cat dislike the kitten so much (i chose a kitten that i observed playing very nicely with his litter mate, so he enjoys other cats!)?  any insight into this would be great!  
 i am currently still going through an introduction of sorts. possy (2yo) lived with another cat her whole life, starlina who passed away a few weeks ago.   they got along like two peas in a pod. a little over a week ago i adopted two kittens from the humane society.  they are now all loose in the house since possy aside from hissing and growling at the gate, didn’t seem to be aggressive towards them. she is slowly returning to her normal behaviors but will hiss and growl if they get to close to her. no aggression but frustration.   i will say this, she has gotten a lot better, even over the short period of time. just be patient with your resident kitty. it’s a big change to have a new rascal running around the house!  
 it can take time. my charlie, who has sinced passed, wanted to kill both of his younger brothers when i got them. there was a lot of growling and hissing - and he didn’t speak to me for a couple weeks either - drama queen . eventually he came around - just be patient   
 probably a little of both. he may be on the talkative side and has a great deal to tell you about his time at the shelter and how he feels about his new home. sort of a way of getting his stress out. he will probably quiet down (some) as he adjusts.    
 i have found that feeby "talks" when she wants attention - has done so from early on. she was a stray and when i took her in i loved on her a lot so there wasn't quite as much reason for her to talk at that point, i guess. but, after some settling in, she was back talking. she has even walked around the house with a string/toy in her mouth and talks at the same time - guess kind of like catching a cat, for an outside cat - look at me and what i have. it is so funny, because you can tell she's carrying something in her mouth due to the different noise she makes.   my point, well, i don't know that i have one. i do know that over time, her "talking" has changed. she became more assertive, comes to bed when she wants, etc. but, there are still times when she still talks, mostly when she is somewhere else in the house than where i am.  
 hi! maybe @marmoset could give you advice on that; can’t get tnr cat back outside  
 oh, as far as safety. the large dog crates i have seen have small enough bar space on the top and four sides that a cat couldn’t get caught in. but the bottom of the cage may have larger holes that a smaller cat might fit through. there is usually a tray that sets on top of this but there is a risk a cat could lift it up.  
 i have had my kitten for about 2 weeks and i’ve noticed a couple things.  he tends to get spooked very easily. he doesn’t like being outside either, even with being held. is that part of being a kitten?  he is a great kitten and loves everyone! but i feel like he doesn’t like me at all and it breaks my heart. i do work very often & he plays with my family members more than me. (i play with him from the time i come home until it’s time for bed) he does cuddle with them and sleep on their laps but he doesn’t with me. could me working a lot be a cause of that? it seems like he never wants to be around me. what can i do to make him love or even want to be around me?  i am a first time owner of a kitten and i would really appreciate advice, experiences, etc.  
 just curious, why do you want the kitten outside? it could very likely be he doesn't feel safe outside, especially if he was born and raised inside. it's a much better idea and safer to keep your cat inside.  i wouldn't worry too much about the kitten not liking you yet. if as you say you work a lot he is just not as use to going to you for love, since you aren't normally there. you are actually better off waiting until he comes to you, cats like to think doing things is their idea. the more you try to force interaction the more the cat is going to push away. by ignoring him you become interesting to him, yes cats are weird like that.  
 welcome!! yes, i've also noticed that cats tend to get antsy and irritated when they feel like something is out of their control. as said above, let him come to you instead! you can go try to pet him if he's hanging out with your family, but if he shows he's not interested, let him be. continue playing when he's interested and caring for him and he might come around!   as for going to the vet, have you tried crate training him? you can leave a crate open in a place he usually frequents. that way, when you put him in the crate for the vet trip, he won't only associate the crate with the vet. in the beginning, your goal would be just to get him used to going inside. you don't have to close the door yet. put in little treats and toys in the crate. include the crate with his play time, such as tossing the toys inside the crate. try putting some of his food inside the crate for him to nibble on. all this can help him make a positive association with the crate and make getting him ready for the vet less stressful.  
 we save the highest value treats for those in the carrier. we use the carrier to go to the vet and, during bad storms to go to the basement. yes, she'd go to the basement on her own, but if she's in the carrier she's less likely to bolt if there is damage to the house.  she also used the carrier for naps when she was a kitten. she was opposed to sleeping period. however, once pushed in the carrier with a few toys and a towel thrown over it, she napped. a kitten who doesn't nap is similar to a two year old human who doesn't nap.  
 is your mom cat spayed?  
 i don't even know if this is the right place to post this and sorry this is so long, but i'm not sure what is important...i feel like i need an outside perspective.  18 months ago, a friend needed to rehome her 1.5yo male kitty due to allergies. it took time (and tears on my part), but i feel like my 11.5yo male resident kitty (baxter) and the "new" kitty (jordy) finally decided to co-habitate after about 2 months of both being in the house. they aren't snuggle buddies, but they have appeared to share resources (litter boxes, toys, & me) without prejudice. they have each had their own feeding spaces in separate rooms with microchip feeders so each only has access to their own food. once the initial introduction was completed, they have been play wrestling (at least that is what google tells me it is -- ears erect, little to no noise such as growling or hissing, when one gets tired he just walks away with no retribution from the other).  approx 4 months after jordy moved in, baxter had a bout of pancreatitis, but it resolved with no hospitalization - only a couple of b12 injections and a maintenance dose of famotidine every other day (whew!) we went on with our normal lives.....  however, approximately 1 month ago, now 13yo baxter started urinating outside the litter box in what i call his "stress reliever spot" multiple times per day, not eating as well, and generally not acting "himelf". (whenever he is stressed he goes to this same spot -- he did this very briefly with the introduction of each of our 2 dogs and also briefly when jordy came into the house). i took him to the vet for a complete workup and the only thing that was found were the levels from his spec fpl test came back elevated -- his pancreatitis is back  . at the vets recommendation, we put him on hills rx i/d diet, upped the famotidine to every day and added cerenia on a daily basis to alleviate his nausea and correct his inappetence. with this new regimen, his appetite got better and he behaved more like himself, but his urinating outside the box has continued -- but only once every couple of days. for the most part he is using the box.  i had him back at the vet today for a follow up because of the non-litter box use and, according to the vet, on physical exam baxter is not acting as if his abdomen is painful. the vet feels that if he was in pain, he would be urinating outside the box more frequently than every couple of days -- it would be all or nothing. additionally, he cited that studies have shown the cernia has a mild pain relief/anti inflammatory effect in addition to the anti-nausea properties it is prescribed for. the vet is leaning towards a behavioral cause for the litter box avoidance. baxter has an appointment to have his bloodwork redone 3 weeks from today to see what his spec fpl says based on his diet change and medication. all of this sounds logical to me.   i have been using litter attractant and keeping the boxes meticulously clean. no changes to litter or in the household.   am i missing something? what am i looking for in subtle aggression between the boys?  
 i would guess that if his health is good the peeing is probably just a bad habit that formed while he was sick that is starting to taper off. is there any way you can block off access to that one spot? maybe stick a scratching post there to discourage the peeing?  just to be clear, he is peeing and not spraying right?  
 does anyone here have a cat on prozac? if so, why and has it accomplished what you were trying to achieve?  i recently read in my catnip newsletter from tufts university of veterinarian medecine that prozac is almost 100% effective at stopping urine marking. i am at my wits end with one of my cats and am willing to try almost anything.  tufts offers a behavior course that runs $200 before they will tell you which medication your cat should take. i consulted with the vet about this today when i had to take zan in for her yearly shots. i showed her the newsletter and she wrote down the phone number and called them. she said she never knew that prozac was used for cats. they told her about the course and said they were very reluctant to give out too much information. with that being said, has anyone ever heard of this behavior course and paid for it?!!  
 my daughter's cat is on prozac and seems to be calmer.   
 i know some members here have cats that are on something like prozac. not sure if it is the same brand name. some will be totally against its use, others swear by it as a lifesaver. kind of the same responses you hear when you hear about people taking it   it sounds like you have a good vet who is willing to go the extra mile. i haven't heard of any cats having adverse affects. hopefully those members will pop up soon. i think white cat lover was one.  good luck and let us know how it goes   
 i agree with trying to address the behavior over medication.  seems all too many times we want to control everything.  some if they could would have everyone around them take a pill to get their desired result.  that's why so many kids and animals are drugged today.  however, i have a persian who came back to me after being purchased from my friend's cattery.  she is really sweet, but she has become so stressed since i got her that she is losing fur.  i'm a breeder myself and i know how to work with her, however, she is obviously having some problems that cannot be dealt with, with a "behavioralist".  that iust an expensive way to control our animal.  watch the animal planet and save yourself some money.  if you put honest effort into it and get no where, then talk about meds.  (or you can pm me . i have helped many for free).  
 hi andrea i certainly understand were your coming from . i had a boy tonkiese cat named scofield and he did have excessive groomin as well as anxiety problems. . when i went to the vet they did prescribed elival and they were gonna give it in pill form but knowing cats to really like pills that they game the elival in a gel like in a syringe and told me to put it in his left ear and it would absorb quicker. the only downside is you need to get gloves cause you get it on your skin. i do have a tonkiese cat named coco she does have some issues with trust but when i adopted her i loved her the same. for her excessive grooming i gave her whisker city calm down it has helped her alot. u can get it at petsmart and the good thing is it comes in a liquid form you just put it in her water. my thing is that when you get medicine for cat try to get what's easiest for you and your cat .. if you have to get it in pill form.. they do have pill pockets and you can get this at petsmart too. hope this helps.  
 hi clang54,  thank you so much for ur advice, ill try this and see and hope it helps )))  
 i have a cat on prozac (actually, it's a generic for prozac). the doctors at my vet's office are very well-informed on this drug for cats. while it has not entirely stopped molly's peeing issues, she has now limited her inappropriate peeing to sometimes and on my front door mat, which is machine washable. i much prefer this to her prior habits of peeing on carpet in various rooms. you have to pick your battles. however, another of my cats was on prozac and not only did it not help with his peeing problem, but it also made him kind of nasty. he's no longer on it, but he has stopped his inappropriate peeing as long as i do not leave a basket of laundry around.  
 i'm glad this thread was bumped - i'm considering asking a vet for prozac for jake and possibly samantha.  their fighting has gotten out of control and is severely impacting our family.  i'm happy to see that so many people have had positive experiences with prozac for cats.  my main concern now is that we don't have a 'regular' vet - i left my last vet last march for numerous reasons.  so i'll be walking into a new vet with three cats and a request for pills... we'll see how that goes lol.  
 thank you so much for this article...it is very informative. i really appreciate you posting it.  thanks again.   
 we have a 14 year old male tabby that is on fluoxetine and has been for several years.  it has a calming effect on him. we have tried everything but this is the only thing that keeps him calm enough so that he's not attacking us and our other kitties.  if he does not get his medication, he will literally attack anyone and anything that gets near him.   we've had him since he was a baby and he was never traumatized.  we worked with behaviorists, changed foods, beds, toys...we tried everything.  our vet told us that she believes he may have suffered brain damage when he was abandoned by his mother as a 4 week old kitten, which is how i found him. he had a severe upper respiratory infection, anemia and was under weight.  after much nursing, medications and love, he began to flourish.  his behavior change started at about age 3, rather suddenly. no cause could be found. nothing was subtracted or added to our home, nothing changed and at that time, we also had a 5 year old female and a 4 year old female. they all got along very well until then. there were no external factors driving the behavior, such as a cat in our yard, etc.  we live in the mountains and no cats are allowed outside due to coyotes and bears.  he lives a quiet life now and without the prozac, he probably would not be here. he attacked one of our females one day and when i rescued her, he turned on me sending me to the er for severe bites and scratches.  the prozac allows him to continue to live with us and he seems pretty happy. it works for us and it saved him from euthanization.  
 i wrote a very long overview of my little man and prozac.  http://www.thecatsite.com/t/302479/charleston-the-anxious-kitty-seeking-input-on-litterbox-problems  suffice it to say, it didn't go well - he was very spaced out and stopped eating.  vet had me lower dose but no difference.  then we stopped entirely.  after giving the prozac a chance to exit the system, vet started on zoloft and pepcid.  i give the pill with wet food now also, instead of morning when it was easier for me but he wasn't eating for a while so it had a chance to make his tummy upset.  might want to talk to the vet about changing up when you give the pill or see if maybe an antacid at the same time might help - who knows.  or maybe this isn't java's antidepressant and your vet can suggest another.    
 yes, prozac can have an effect on appetite.  from my limited research it is either that it has reduced stress eating which is good or it is not setting well and the tummy is upset.  i found this out because my kitty had a very bad "upset stomach" reaction.  reading human experience can be helpful to try to put into kitty context since the kitties cannot speak.  what i read is that for some people prozac can make them feel dizzy and disorientated.  they'd be so incredibly hungry but the thought of eating or actually eating made them physically ill.  my kitty drooled and barely ate anything, he was miserable so after a few weeks he came off.    i'd talk to your vet and see if they have any advice.  if the weight loss is minor and buddy is otherwise eating and engaged, then it might just be eliminating some stress eating.  if he's lost a lot or acting zoned out, it might be time to try something different.  my little man is on zoloft now for 6 months.  i cannot be positive, but i think he's happier - he plays and he doesn't go outside the box.    
 i get fluoxetine compounded into a liquid tuna flavor and psycho loves it. it s his tuna treat. cost is $12.50 plus overnight shipping because it has to be refrigerated. i get it from bcp in houston, tx. he s been getting it for 6 years.  
 the prozac lasts about 2- 3 months.  
 my cat (actually my son's cat, he got booted out by the daughter-in-law for spraying!) has always been very high-strung.  he was okay at my house for awhile, then i found a newborn kitten and brought it in and saved it.  well, that put him (bumpy) right over the edge!  i tried everything but the spraying just got worse.  when we then replaced our kitchen floor he went ballistic and on an almost-constant spraying binge.  i went to our vet, almost hysterical, i just couldn't take it anymore.  he suggested that we try prozac (actually, the generic, fluoxetine).  it is a miracle!  from day 1 he stopped spraying!!  he's been on it for almost two months now, weaned down to a maintenance dose of only twice per week.  these are small, 10 mg. gel capsules with powder inside.  i dip it in mineral oil and pop it into the back of his mouth and hold it shut til he swallows, not hard at all.  i guess most owners could use the pill pockets but my cat is diabetic and can't have the carbs.  my vet swears that the prozac is safe for a diabetic cat, and may actually help as lower stress can mean lower blood sugar.  the only side effect i saw was mild diarrhea a couple of times in the beginning.  my cat is now a joy to have around, and he gets along better with the other animals, even plays with the kitten!  it bothers me a bit that your vet did not even know about using prozac for cats!!  this is actually very common and i think any decent vet would know it.  as long as physical problems have been ruled out, there is no reason to pay $200 for a behavior course!!  just find a vet who will check out your cat and prescribe the fluoxetine.  i pay about $7 for a one month supply, right from my vet, very reasonable.  this has truly saved my sanity and i woould pay far, far more it needed!!  
 cats with kidney disease should not be on prozac!!  seriously, kidney or liver disease are just about the only reasons you can't use it, so please check with your vet and find out why he thought it was okay to prescribe it.  
 why are you using liquid prozac?  my vet gives me pills (generic fluoxetine) about $7 for a bottle.  i think they lasted me a month when he took every other day.  he is now 2x a week so they will last longer.  if your vet doesn't have this generic, he should be able to write an rx that you can fill at walmart.  they are a small gel capsule and not hard to make your cat swallow.  or you could use pill pockets.  (i can't because my cat is diabetic and can't have carbs, but you could use them.)  how are you using the liquid?  because if you squirt on his food and he doesn't eat all of it, then what?  he didn't get a full dose and that is very important, but you have no idea how much he did ingest and so you're kinda stuck.  and i can't imagine that making him swallow a liquid would be any easier than making him swallow a pill.  i just feel the pill is more of a "sure thing", you know he got the full dose all at once.  regular dosing is very important as you need to get him built up to a therapeutic level in his brain and then maintain that level or it doesn't work as well.  i have no idea what mertz is, sorry!  
 . well my friend said i should try this vet that is extremely good with cats as he loves cats and has lots himself. i usually go to an older old time vet that is very reasonably priced but does not do blood work nor x-rays. in other words if it is a real emergency i don't go to him. with 13 adopted cats i try to take care of everything by researching lots. but this whole spraying and attacking has me ready to have a mental breakdown. now this evening i caught his sibling brother spraying the wall! oh my! well anyway this new vet said he wanted me to take the prescription to a compounding pharmacy that he uses. he said pilling the cat would bring more stress to him. actually i use a syringe the pharmacy gave me and it is just 1/2 ml and is sweet so he does not mind too much. i have tried the pill pockets and my cats do not like them. figures! this is way too expensive for me at about $30.00 a month. what would you suggest please. it is stressful cause my hubby never wanted one cat and now i have 13! it is hard enough caring for 13 let alone having them spray and attack! at least i do have a kitty yard and sunroom they go in but don't like urine all over out in my sunroom either! thank-you for any advice.  
 . you are an angel! could you please pm me so we can keep in touch?  i might try getting the pills myself as i order drugs from canada cheap. i already ordered more of the liquid at a cheaper price on line . anything beats $30.00 a month! thank-you so much.  
 your cat diamond sounds exactly like my boy pinky as he has a cute pink nose. anyway he stares at the other cats in our family and they start running as they know how he is, and the run is on! he really attacks them and fur flies and his mouth is full of fur. i feel so sorry for the other cats and now his brother is spraying just like pinky. i know it is from the stress of getting attacked by pinky! now i will have to put them both on prozac which i can hardly afford as i have 13 cats that were rescued and adopted by me. i could not find homes for any of them. our county is full of stray cats and dogs.  
 i am having a problem with paying exorbitant prices in our town for prozac for my cat that sprays.nnow his brother is spraying too. i am going crazy. i can order from a vet in canada that will give me 90 10mg tabs for 37.62. is this reasonable. right now i am paying $35.00 for liquid and will most likely have to put his brother on it also. please help. does anyone know of anywhere else i can get it cheaper? i need lots of advice. thank-you!  
 i honestly think you could do better at walmart, call and ask for the price on 10 mg. fluoxetine, which is the generic for prozac and works just as well, it is what i use.  my vet is very reasonable and i get mine from him, but if that is not an option then definitely check walmart before you order from canada.  your vet would have to write the rx but then you could take it wherever and have it filled, i know walmart fills pet meds all the time around here.  
 just wanted to remind everyone that veterinarians often prescribe dosages for reasons we may not be aware of here. it could be weight, it could be age, it could be an underlying health condition. sometimes it's about the vet's experience with the drug and sometimes it's about adjusting a drug gradually.   it can be dangerous to change dosages according to online recommendations which is why we don't allow recommending medical treatments, and specifically not dosages. if you're not happy with the dosage your veterinarian recommends, talk to him/her about it. still unhappy? it's time to think about finding a vet that you do trust.   to clarify, this isn't about any specific post that's currently in the thread, just a general reminder for us all.    
 my cat has been on prozac for sometime. i got help from another cat site reader. it has helped me so much. she was a god send to me as the stress my cat was causing me had me crazy! i would like for you to contact me for moral support. i hope this site allows this as it is very important for cat rescuers to get together and support one another. i love this site but feel they should allow more freedom for their fans to help one another. look me up on facebook... vendetta holman dressel. hang in there!  
 i understand. i wish you the best. feliway plug ins help frightened cats really well.  
 as i said before thank you for helping.  i will post if anything else works.  
 oh, don't worry about my son and adderall.  he had a definite case of adhd and really needed it to calm and focus (not "speed" on it) in college--yes, it worked that way on his brain--and once he was out of school he stopped taking it.  all is well.  but back to the cat.  i plan to take her back to the vet on thursday morning to check and see if maybe crystals were missed on the first go-round, and try the prozac.   thanks, all!  
 i would try the prozac. your vet should be able to find a pharmacy to make it into a flavored liquid. even though it is flavored, my cat tastes it in his food so eventually i stopped that and now am squirting it in his mouth. he is not a fan of that either but i can't get a pill in him. anyway the prozac worked immediately for inappropriate peeing and pooping. and, he is not totally stoned or lethargic. there is less aggression between my two cats, which is an added bonus. however, the other cat is on amyltriptiline so that may have something to do with it. you may want to consider amyltriptiline. i think i am spelling this wrong but it is also called elavil. this has made my big cat a lot less aggressive. it has more of a sedating effect so you may have to adjust the dose. it is available as a transdermal that is put on the ear.  
 i use bcp in houston ,tx. we get the tuna flavor.  
 we use it in two forms. the 10mg pills are a pain in my butt to quarter, but i do it the best i can and i put a quarter in a pill pocket. boyfriend's prescription for his cat was not dispensed as written. his vet wrote the same thing, but the pharmacy did capsules instead of caplets. he bought a milligram scale and puts 2.5 mg of the powdered drug into his food and he eats it, no problem. we're feeding raw and it's rabbit, turkey, supplements and fish oil.  
 never did a thing for mine- none of that stuff did- all a huge waste of money and very expensive-   you are lucky if any of it works for you  
 two forms of the prozac? do you need to get it from the vet or can you just buy it  other places? if so  -where? thanks- putting it in the food sounds best- less traumatic that way  
 they amyltriptline (elavil) will take the edge off of aggression. but, if you start it and your kitty seems too sleepy, cut down the dose. my cat is now on 1/2 of a 5 mg pill and he seems himself but isn't chasing the other one around.   you do need a prescription for the prosac from your vet.   
 yes i know the difference in how the basic meds work  for humans anyway - figure its the same for cats-  that is why i don't want to put her on elavil or buspar -  but not sure about prozac either-  i do not have endless hundreds or thousands to play the vet game here- none of them give anyone a break- the one here who pretends to is one of the worst vets i've ever seen in an emergency- would never go back to him  will check this all this  out- and yes- i hope i can too  she is best in her own home- not on drugs- away from what terrifies her -   but that is no simple task for an older cat- even a great one such as she is-   she is great company for a calm quiet gentle person- but barring that  i will talk to the vet on monday-   interestingly you can get the meds online without a script- after all the reading i've been doing- i bet the vet tells me the same thing and gives the same dosage and charges me hundreds for it-  thank you for this i am insane over it-   
 @dannie c a lot of people just think the medications are "wrong" for cats.   a lot of people also don't accept mental illness and treatment as "real" physical illnesses.   i think buspar is tested first for anxiety right now, as dopamine is expected to calm anxiety in cats (and people). i don't have any personal experience with buspar in cats.   when we used prozac for allison, she kept peeing on one throw rug. we introduced her to an older female i rescued from a coworker. tipper could be irritable and cranky, but allison had the problem behavior. it all worked out, and we later introduced a third cat (kiki) to that mix. we had 3 girls for about 6 years and never had that problem again.  
 just adding info in the mix here. i've just ordered fluoxetine (prozac) from an online pharmacy using the vet's prescription. this is for the transderma ear gel. for a one month tube at 5mg a day it cost $19 plus shipping. really soo much cheaper than what i read from a few other people! i hope it works!  
 thank you for telling your story. i think it is a testament to your devotion to your pet that you have been so patient and searching for answers. i agree, prozac is not a cop out. many would have put billie down with the behavior issues you are describing. in my own case, i had given my cat, boots, prozac for a few months for inappropriate peeing. i was able to wean him off the prozac and so far there have been no more issues. the peeing started when i moved some furniture from my mom's house (that i was selling) to my house. some of the items were from her basement and they had a slight musty odor. looking back, this must have triggered it: "weird smelling things in the territory that i must mark so all other cats know it is mine." also at the same time he was found to have a hyperactive thyroid, which is now being treated. so, we may never know what the issue was but the prozac often makes life easier for both the pet and the owner. if the cat is not having anxiety, they are surely happier. the only side effect he experienced was the loss of appetite but that actually improved over the course of taking prozac. please update us again!  
 wow. you are really going that extra mile. i hope it works for you and billie and you can all find some peace.   
 i have a similar story, putting our cat on prozac for inappropriate peeing. it works miracles for him and didn't change his bubbly little personality at all.    it's been about a year, i think. we've weaned him down to half a dose now and he's still doing fine. we got it in the treat form. he won't eat it as a treat, unfortunately, but we mix it in his food and that works.   i'm really sorry your little girl isn't doing so well, @klaren. we took in an older cat who had serious aggression issues. the poor guy was deaf and had ibd so he already had issues, and then he just didn't adapt well to life in our house with other cats. we put him on acepromazine short term to stop the aggression which worked wonders but he never was able to be around our other cats and lived most of his life in a separate room, with access to a catio outside. we brought him out every evening, with the other cats shut in another room, to give him some petting and brushing time with us humans. it wasn't an ideal situation but he had a good life under the circumstances.   it sounds like you're going above and beyond for your kitty. sending lots of good for you and billie.   
 i recently put my cat sylvia on fluoxetine which is an anti depressant. i have had her on this for a month to stop overgrooming. it is working well. for the first week it made sylvia sleep a lot. now after 3 weeks she is running around playing and chasing her sister tabitha.  
 my cat has feline hyperesthesia and we put him on prozac almost a year ago to treat his random aggression. he is now the sweetest cat. the only side effect he has had is dilated pupils.  
 is the drooling new? have you talked to your vet about the drooling? i was giving prozac and he also started drooling having never drooled before. eventually he stopped eating and basically just standing still and shaking. he was moved to zoloft, stopped drooling, stopped shaking and ate regularly.   
 i've had to do some musical litter boxes (moving them from one location to another) over the past several months as cats and kittens have passed through and angus didn't have any problem with it, but he's a fairly laid back kitten.  i usually didn't make huge changes all at once. if i were you, i'd try pulling one of the hallway boxes and see if anything changes. then after a week, pull one of the bedroom boxes. i'd guess that as long as there are still litter boxes in multiple locations it probably won't be an issue.   
 i'm with @notacrazycatlady, except that i would start with one of the ones in the bedroom, since you say that they are quite close together. try positioning the remaining one in the center of where the two used to be.  
 thanks for the advice! i think i will start with one in the bedroom. they are basically right next to each other.  
 let us know how it goes!  
 i haven't done anything yet. so far the only one she hasn't used is one in the bedroom. i intend to pick them all up, clean, and change the litter this weekend, so i'm going to try just putting one down in there in the position of the one she has used.  
 he’s playful but a bit more on the aggressive side. he likes to bite or scratch my hand, but not enough to actually hurt me. we have another adult cat in the house 1 and a half year old male persian too, and they like to wrestle, which is why i’m a bit worried. he plays rough. but so far, he’s tolerating the presence of the kitten better than when my other male persian first came to us.   
 i’ll try playing with them using the wand toy later. hopefully it works. i’m really excited for them to get along with each other. thank you very much for your response!!   
 what does she do with guests that she needs to be on prozac? does she present a threat to your guests? or herself? if that’s not it, then can she be given a room or an enclosure that can be her safe space that guests are instructed not to disturb? unless she presents a threat to herself or your guests, i have a hard time accepting a cat being medicated to not be a cat.  
 she will swat at and charge at my guests. i really don't like giving her the prozac  i am all for natural remedies. we live in a smaller townhouse and i could lock her in my bedroom, but then i need to put a litter box in there temporarily.   i have never had a cat like this before. we are worried that if we dont correct her behavior before we have children, she will act this way towards them.   
 we use a feliway diffuser in our bedroom. (she used to get anxious and pee on our bed) it has worked wonders for that. it does nothing for her social anxiety  we even tried multiple diffusers around the home.  calming chewables do nothing for her    
 as @mamanyt1953 has commented, it seems the calming products are really great or a complete dud. what if you tried her chamomile recipe, and also music? try 1-3 teaspoonfuls of chilled chamomile tea, up to 3 times a day. administer via syringe, placing the tip between the cheek and gum, and injecting slowly, allowing time to swallow. use the commercial tea bags from the coffee/tea aisle of your local grocery store to insure that you are getting german chamomile, which is safe for cats. english, which often grows in gardens, is not.  i like the chamomile because it is gently calming without being actually sedating. no wobbly, drunk kitties staggering around.  regarding music, try low volume classical harp music, george handel compositions, or the app relax my cat.  
 took me a bit but i found the thread again! yay!  little update: i spoke to the vet about cbd oil. in canada they are not allowed to talk about dosage, as it's not approved yet for animals. she had to give me that disclaimer, with a note that she has several patients using it with great results for things like @kieka mentioned, arthritis, cancer etc.  there is great research being done that is showing very promising results in animals on cbd oil.  she has not seen any research yet regarding inflammation in the gi tract, which is one of the things i was looking at for charlie. logic for me says that since arthritis is a type of inflammation - that cbd oil could have positive results for inflammation in the body overall.  for calming, i would be curious to see how it works as well - charlie is having such a tough time with the new unexpected additions to his world.  the vet appeared very positive about using it. i was really glad about that.  @kieka from what i understood about your post we should look for one that is marijuana based, not hemp based, or did i misunderstand?  it's now legal in canada, but, tbh i'm not 100% sure what too look for. i'm taking your post as a guide but if there is any other info you can provide for us new kids to it - would love the info.  
 thanks for the responses. those articles are helpful. i already picked up some feliway plugins. i had them separated, i just put them back together too soon i think. btw, the feliway absolutely helps as the spray i picked up also almost instantly made the upset male less aggressive towards me. so i went back to the store and got the plugins.  
 well, the med might help. but if i got that lackluster "here, have your cat take this drug" before they even examined him, i'd fire his ass and find a new vet.   
 sorry forgot to say he’s 4 years and has been neutered.  
 do you have a yard? if you do, can you put in a catio so your cat can be outdoors but not be able to roam the neighborhood? or try harness training your cat and take him out for walks. some cats enjoy a cat stroller.  
 i have 2 one year old boys, one is a clepto...anything he can fit into his mouth gets stolen, the other could care less. sometimes i think he just likes to carry things in his mouth, he is a big cat ( 15lbs ) with a big mouth, lol. the other night my hubby left the garbage can open...he got one of those plastic trays that holds cookies and was slinking through the bedroom...it's pretty amusing to watch a cat try to be quiet, hold the the tray up of the floor and watch to see if anyone is seeing him ( the tray was about 2/3 the length of his body ). he steals pretty much anything that isnt nailed down...hair ties, bottle caps, milk jug rings, flash drives, keys, make up brushes...if it fits in his mouth he will carry it away. what causes this behavior? it's like he is a hoarder!  
 lol sounds like he might have been part raccoon.   
 100% normal!  my 'most' social cat hobo will meow for a few hours when i return home from a trip.....and then plant himself firmly on my chest for a entire weekend of netflix!  what can you do? just expect it when you return!  
 yea your cat just probably missed you, it’s definitely normal.  
 thank you for the welcome and the invite to post a tribute to my little sadie. i will in a few days. kia ate yesterday normally, last night only a couple morsels of dry food, today is when she had refused to eat for about 3 hours. i did as you suggested, offered a couple treats and she ate them, then went to the food bowl and ate a bit. so i hope is just the stress of the vet.  thank you for your support everyone. i wished i would have found this board earlier and join under better circumstances, but i will participate to share my experiences (i had 4 kitties along the years), in case it helps someone.   
 hi! thanks a lot for responding!! he seems to have calmed down quite a bit now but he’s still in hiding and he won’t eat. i can tell he nibbled on his food a little last night but he hasn’t touched it since then. should i take his crate apart and make him come out or should i just give him more time and wait for him to eat again?  
 oh i'm so glad!! speaking of new smells etc, just to mention, if there were animals in your apartment before he's able to tell, and if there are current animals in other apartments, he can detect them. i really do think that since he ate a little already, that is a big step in the right direction. leave him in his safe place, but try offering smelly things like tuna . just put the plate down though, don't rush him.  if you can, don't stress at all because he can detect that too. sit with him and read some poetry, something happy. he'll be ok, he has a terrific mom   
 thank you for letting me know about gohan! he sounds just like my baby and he seems to have survived so that gives me hope! i’m just very anxious about him not eating i wish there was something i could do to help him eat more of his food but i think i just have to be patient and hope for the best.  
 awww thank you <3 okay no stress from now on and yes i’ve been reading about the tuna helping them eat so i will for sure try that as well. i’m not sure if he misses the dogs or not but i brought a blanket to his room that one of the dogs used to be very fond of and i’ve been sprinkling it with feliway and putting it around his crate. i’m not really sure if that’s helping or not but trial and error as of right now haha. thank you so much for all your wonderful advice!  
 most of mine always found places to hide for the first three days and they moved a lot. i think it's a matter of being sure their own pride is the only one in the house. the scents of the people and animals who lived there before are all around them no matter how much the place was cleaned. so they are listening to see if anyone strange is there. cats are good at waiting. once he's certain it's just you and him, he'll come out.  later if he seems to be looking for the dogs you might have them over for a play date. if nothing else you'll discover if he's missing them or not.  
 my 12-year old neutered male cat has become anxious and is overgrooming and scratching raw spots in his fur, so i took him to the vet and had a thorough panel of tests run. i was sort of expecting a diagnosis of hyperthroidism, but they didn't find that. as the vet said, the good news is that all his blood tests, hormones, blood count, liver and kidney levels, urinalysis, etc... came back looking perfect. the bad news is we don't know why he's doing this. my vet did not seem to think it was a food allergy, but i have not tried elimination diets. she was suggesting things like feliway or even cbd oil.   i've had him since he was a kitten, and he's always been on the high-energy, high-strung side.  a couple of times, recently, he's awakened me in the middle of the night, yowling, but there doesn't seem to be anything wrong. holding him calms him down.   one possibility i've considered is that he feels crowded. because i'm involved in tnr and cat rescue, i've ended up with a total of five cats. he used to nap with the others, but has grown more distant and tends to avoid them even though he's related to four of them and has lived with all but one for nine years. the last arrived two years ago.  any ideas or protocols would be appreciated.  
 hi! are you able to play with him, and brush him? ...no fleas? -some cats are allergic to fleas...  is he eating dry food only? try switching to canned, or even commercial raw such as radcat or primal. also, try eliminating chicken first, it seems to be one of the major triggers. if that doesn't help, then foods with fish, it seems to be another trigger, which can be more challenging as a lot of foods have fish.  also, try an app called relax my cat or musicforcats . com  
 @david68, a hearty welcome!  @furballsmom had some really good questions and ideas.  if you don't mind my asking, could you give us a very approximate run down of their living space/size? 5 cats in a large house is usually ok, but 5 cats in a smaller space can cause problems sometimes.  welcome to the world of tnr and taking them in to "foster" and keeping them...we're brothers, you and i. do they have vertical access (shelves, trees, up to the ceiling if need be)? if you're renting this might not be an option, if you own, a stud finder, some nails and a hammer and some shelving brackets and cheap planks of wood could work wonders. if he's always been a bit high strung, that probably has something to do with it. the more nerve-y they're wired, the more change seems to affect them. does he have a safe spot that the other cats aren't allowed in?   
 he's on revolution for fleas, and we don't have a flea problem. he does like to go outside in my garage where he has a place up in the rafters. i kept him inside for a week to see if he was reacting to mosquitoes, but there was no change.   my living space is 700 square feet, which is on the smaller side for 5 cats. he has a couple of high spaces where he can sleep like on top of an armoire or on top of a filing cabinet where the other cats don't bother him. but he used to sleep on the bed with the other cats and does still sometimes sleep on the floor around the others.  he eats a combination of wet and dry food. he also has a tendency to overeat and then throw up. purina gentle has been better for that then other foods. switching foods presents the problem of having to switch all five cats or resorting to complicated feeding protocols.  
 hi! if purina gentle is working then that's the ticket there. try playing with him, try the music. maybe something here will help; skin conditions in cats  
 i've had sookie for about two months now. someone found her in the rain, took her in and my boyfriend got her for me. she has her first vet appointment next week but until then, we have no idea how old she is. she's young though. not a small kitten but more like a teenager we joke around and say. we don't have any other pets either. twice a day, i give her wet food along with her dry food. lately she's been trying to bury what food she has left (but only the wet food~she doesn't do it with the dry food). it would make sense to me if we had another animal but we don't and i'm so confused why shes acting this way. when she does it, i put the dish up on the counter. her dishes are glass so when she's "burying" her food dish, it's loud & i don't want her to break her dish. does anyone have any clue why she's doing this and is there anything i can do to make her stop? i worry maybe she is nervous someone or something is going to take her food & i don't want her scared. thank you in advance for any help.  
 olive does this too! she eats all of her meal, but if there is a little residue she digs at the carpet and tries to bury it. i just pick the bowl up and put it away and it seems to satisfy her.  
 mingo does it to food he doesn't like too. he can't stand it when lily is licking a food dish of mine, so he chases her away, then decides he doesn't like it, and tries to cover it up. it's like "you can't have it if i can't have it."  
 floof is my 2 year old neutered male cat, about 13 lbs. i’ve had him since he was a kitten and he’s never had behavior issues. about a week ago i picked up a 12 week old kitten (her name is dun) that weighs about 2 lbs. i’ve kept her in my bedroom away from floof. they met face to face and seemed okay with each other, but i still kept them separated. now, floof will meow and scratch at the bottom of my bedroom door trying to get to her. when i let him in my room he will stalk dun and then run up to her and bite her throat and won’t let go unless i break it up or she hides under the bed -he can also fit under the bed but he won’t go after her when she’s under there. sometimes she’ll cry out and wriggle herself free but he just runs after her and goes for her throat again. sometimes she’ll hiss and try to fight back. this happens every time they’re in the same room together. i know it’s still early but i don’t know why he’s acting like this or if he’s ever going to stop. and if i should be breaking it up or just let them be? it just looks so aggressive!  
 the one in the picture is 6mths. there is dry that's free fed. she gets a can a night with package snacks sometimes. the other is 4 yrs. they don't swallow it, just chew it.  
 hello friends,  i am new to the forum and am glad i found it. i recently moved to a new area and wanted a new pet. so after a long search (over a year) i found a 1 year old male cat that a neighbor had she had to remove him from the home as the son was allergic to the cute guy.   my issue is that he was never an outside cat and by bringing him out of his old home and into the car it scared him and now he relates that fear to me. i brought him home and he hid behind my dryer for the first evening. when i went to bed he moved to my daughters old room and under her bed. so i moved the litter box, food and water in there.  he does eat and drink and use the litter but he is still afraid of me. it has been 2 days and i just want to hold and reassure him that i want to care for and love and pet him but i do not want to forcefully pick him up.  i am not sure if the child in the old home was very hands on and chased the cat around and that the cat is normally on edge or not. my old cat was a very relaxed female which i had since she was 8 weeks old. she would kind of roam the house at a very slow and leisurely pace and demand hugs and affection (when she was in the mood for it). so my new cats actions are worrying me. what am i doing wrong or what do i need to do friends ?  
 thank you for the kind words rajanmizu. he is just so skittish. i wanted him to see me putting new food in his bowl so he could at least associate me with his food but the sound of the food going into the bowl made him run away, i felt awful. so i left the room and he ran past me back into the room.. lol  
 i will add some pictures when he makes his appearance, as of now it is a bit dark under the bed and all you would see is those pretty eyes as he is pure black and under the bed. i can and will be patient and this is his home now and i will wake each day awaiting a new surprise. thank you again friend for the kind words and encouragement.  
 hello and welcome to tcs. and thank you for giving this kitty a home. some cats adapt quickly to their new home, and others take a while to acclimate.   here's a recent tcs thread that asked what was your cat's behavior like in the first day? which you may find interesting/helpful.  the fact that he is eating and using the litter box is really good. at least you don't have to worry about that.  tcs has some articles that might have some tips for you. here are the links: how to help a new cat adjust to your home how to get a cat to come out of hiding? 10 must-know tips for happy living with a shy cat 14 cat experts reveal: how to get a cat to like me  
 re-directed aggression is confusing, as since it's "re-directed" it's hard to know what it is that annoyed/scared the cat. but i suspect hearing the male cat hissing/growling/meowing put her in high alert, and we'll probably never know if she was feeling threatened, wanted to protect you, etc.  how are things today? if they still seem to have issues with each other, maybe look into feliway or calming treats/collars. some people find they help with stressed cats.  
 hello everyone. i recently joined this site so i could get others experience with their indoor/outdoor cats. background: my neighbors sister moved in with him in 2013. she brought along 3 cats, all of which were allowed to roam freely. almost immediately, one of the cats decided to adopt me and pretty much moved in with me. the neighbor was cool with this as she knew he was safe. in 2015, when the cat was 5 years old, the neighbor "gave" him to me. i put quotes around the word gave, as this cat has always been independent and had a history of leaving home environments he wasn't happy with. over the last 3 years, our bond to each other has grown and i know that he is an extremely happy and healthy cat. he has a cat door, comes and goes as he pleases and 90% of the time, will come when i call him in for the night. but i worry about him! i've been slowly trying to get him to stay inside more and have tried the harness/leash-he just lays down in rebellion, i don't have a spot for a catio and as i live alone, he becomes distraught if i lock him in when i go to work. i am trying to allow him out just during daylight hours, but in palm springs it is still hot during the day and he isn't interested.  i know that there are dangers outside and that he will probably live longer if i force the indoor only issue, but i keep circling back to quality of life. he is now close to 9 years old and is miserable when i keep him inside. i keep reading in this forum that others have transitioned their outdoor cat to indoor and the cat is happy. i also read that other cats develop behavioral issues as they are miserable. i am so conflicted. i hate worrying about him when he's out and i hate seeing how distraught he becomes when i cage him in the house. i don't have an acceptable solution and i need to make a decision one way or another and make peace with it. perhaps at his age and given his background, i should allow his happiness and freedom trump my worries.  i have read numerous posts from those that are strictly in the indoors only camp and i am very aware of the dangers outdoor cats face. i don't need to rehash these dangers, and am hoping to hear experiences from those that have/had indoor/outdoor cats.  thank you!  
 hi. i am not sure i know what you mean by 'puffs up'. if he is doing mostly while playing and running, you wouldn't think it was a negative thing.   not sure if this is the same, but feeby will raise her tail and shake it (almost the motion of trying to spray, or so i am guessing, as she has never sprayed). at first, it freaked me out because of the possibility of spraying, and even now i worry because she is getting older (14+).   usually if she does this it is because of something that has excited her (not in a bad way) - unfortunately related to food a lot of the time, but some times when she is playing or someone is talking to her.  
 none of my cats, even my previous cat, liked when i turned the light off so for as long as i can remember i sleep with my bedside lamp on.  i'm only allowed to turn it off when a bit of light begins to come in through the curtains so this is the story of how my sleeping schedule is a complete mess because of cats!  
 if she's hungry you can leave about a half can of food out. it's safe since they have shorter and more acidic digestive systems. another thing you can do is spray your cat with water when she whines at the door. people might think it's cruel but it works for me and my cat isn't that sensitive to be heart broken over it. some nights i shake the spray bottle to remind her to let us sleep.  
 you are very reasonable for needing sleep, and finding your cat waking you frustrating,and sleep deprivation can be a terrible thing.   i don't think that it is only food, but clearly the food aspect isn't helping, so i have a couple of ideas for addressing that part, which i'll start with.  you feed wet food as the main food, but are trying to use dry as a night time food. that mismatch is why i suspect that it isn't working well.  you can either fix that by using an automatic  feeder that works with wet food, or just transition to a high quality dry food full time (don't switch to all dry if your cats are bad drinkers or have kidney or urinary tract issues, obviously.)   either way your automatic midnight (as well as 2 and 4am) feedings should work a lot better if they match the main food.  also, i believe that you may find that you really are what your cat wants. when you told me about your commute, that actually made me even more sure. your at home awake time is like 4 hours a day, and most cats, rumors to the contrary want more. luckily time spent sleeping in the same room counts as quality time in the mind of most cats.  so, unless you have medical reasons, i suspect that your best bet is to allow your cat into the room with you.  a cat flap or leaving the door open is the easiest way to allow a cat into your room, and you'll probably get used to your cat walking around/moving on the bed in a few nights, but if not (or if you just aren't comfortable allowing your cat on the bed with you, there is an alternative.  you could create a place for your cat to sleep near you in the room. in my case, my cat has a window pod is in my bedroom, and my cat sleeps in it most nights, generally leaving me be (i also let her sleep on the bed and she often curls up very sedately against my legs, but even if that wasn't something she did or was allowed, she'd still be quite content with the pod.) a cat tree, a reachable shelf with a soft cat bed on it, or, even just a folding chair with a cardboard box all work as well.  once you have made a spot for your cat, you can encourage them to use it, and, discourage them being on the bed its self. it may take a couple of weeks to train them, but gently removing your cat from the bed when they wake you and putting them on their spot should suffice, and if not, you can always use removal from your room as a training aid (it works really well, even for my stubborn cat).   also, if you want the cat off the bed, you'll need to make that a rule 24/7 not just when you're sleeping. also, since you have multiple cats, each one will need their own spot in your bedroom (the plus side is that they'll probably learn faster since they'll learn by observing you reward and punish the other cat.)  if you absolutely can't allow your cats in your room for medical reasons (allergies, asthma,imuno issues, etc. ) , there is a product that will probably work. it is a device called the ssscat. you place it in a place your cat isn't allowed, and if they go there, it will spray them with a jet of air, scaring the heck out of them. it usually will work with most cats, and guarding a door with it will usually keep them out, but, i really think that both you and your cats will be better off with controlled access to your bedroom in the long run.  -  
 have you considered earplugs? i know it's hard to sleep with the foam ones in your ears, but there are flat silicon ones as well, and fancier ones that come in various sizes on amazon. i've also seen headphones designed specifically for sleeping that play calming music.   sometimes it's easier to creatively adapt your own routine that to try to get a cat to change theirs....  
 another option (not mutually exclusive from earplugs) is a solid core door on your bedroom and or a white noise generator (a large air filter or a box fan usually will work well, but a specialty unit can help, too.)  i still favor training your cats to be in the room but not waking you as a long term option, but you'll have a few weeks of screaming outside your door while you teach hem the new rules, so reducing the impact of that is good no matter what you decide.   
 @maria bayote bless you and your husbands' hearts! to the op, how are things going?  i got to thinking, for you at least so you can hopefully get some more sleep since you're driving, can you try mack's earplugs? they're a little easier to sleep in...  
 i feel your pain. my lil guy has been waking me up religiously between 3:38 to 4:30 depending how late he eats the night before (i try to stretch it out but sometimes it doesn't work). he is the same way, meow. i pet him, he calms down but then starts walking back and forth on me (he is not a small cat). i tell him to go play with his toys, when he realizes he is not going to win he does. then comes back and it starts. i've learned since i wake up at 4am for a bio break it is just easier to feed him and go back to sleep. he eats, comes back and curls up at the bottom of my bed and let's me sleep til whenever. so i am assuming it is a result of his previous owner (he is a rescue). it's not big deal i have found a work around and it works for me. i've tried locking out of the room when he does this, he's only well behaved for a couple of days then back to the routine.  
 if they didn't love you, they wouldn't mind not being in your bedroom.  
 i don't think she's being tortured living with you. and her meow greeting, is probably more of a "you're home!", than a sad meow.  of course, after living in a house with more people, plus the dog, she might be finding it lonely. is getting a second cat an option? if so, she's probably a good age to get her a sibling. but, if it's not a possibility, lots of cats are only cats, and do fine. and, some cats thrive being only cats.  here's a few tcs articles that might have some tips for you.  bored cat? what cat owners need to know (including 10 actionable tips) playing with your cat: 10 things you need to know how to make your home bigger (at least for your cats)  
 thank you for replies and links!  i tried to bring second kitten when she was few weeks with me. it didn't go well. she didn't eat or use her litter box... basically, she didn't want to have any interaction with new kitten. that lasted for 2 days and then i decided to give kitten back to her previous owners.  
 hi. i am guessing that this behavior might stop once smokey has been neutered. will that be happening soon? how old are they? it is possible that smokey has now reached maturity and that could be causing the changes in jack's behavior.   how is jack doing otherwise - eating/drinking/using his litter box appropriately?  are they both in good health?   until this problem can be resolved, take a fairly sizeable piece of strong cardboard and use that to try to separate them when jack goes after smokey - at least that way you reduce the chances of getting hurt when intervening.   hopefully, other members on this site will see your post soon and offer some more helpful information!!  
 hello and welcome to tcs. how old is smokey? if he's 6 months or older, you should plan to get him neutered asap.   unneutered cats are very territorial, and though he and jack usually get along, something has changed to cause the strange behaviour. and, as @kflowers mentioned, this new aggressive behaviour could lead to either cat starting to territorial spray. neutering before that happens usually prevents spraying, but not always. nor does neutering guarantee a cat that has started spraying will stop.   after smokey is neutered, and comes home from the vet, you may have to separate them, and do a re-introduction. especially if you see non-recognition aggression. here's info on that: how to deal with non-recognition aggression in cats  also an article on why do cats attack?  i am wondering, though, if anything has changed with you? different clothes? different makeup product? different work hours? i ask, as you mention they are angels when you aren't home.  
 when demi is humping & sucking on his blankie, he gets mad if anybody disturbs him before he is done.   
 so ive run into another problem,my kitten does not like my dog. they can be in the same room together but whenever my dog comes near her she puffs up and hisses.  
 well maybe thats true but my cat hisses at my kitten so i don't know if my kitten really likes my cat and vise versa.  
 how long has your kitten been with you? ditto for the older cat and the dog. does anyone get along with anyone?   the kitten could still be mimicking the older cat, even if the older one does not hiss at the dog, just at the kitten.  
 she's already transitioned to clumping litter, having decided kitty litter doesn't taste good. do you think it's still a concern?  
 i would definitely bring mica to the vet to do a seniors check up. she could be in pain from age related arthritis which is why she does not tolerate stinker very well. over the last couple of years it could have become worse and she was having a particularly bad day and stinker just happened to walk too close for comfort to mica so she lashed out. once mica gets the all clear and/or treatment, i would try a re-introduction of the two.  
 well, i really prefer not changing litter boxes. if i would i would get this one from petsmart which is basically a tub with a hole in the lid where the cat enters...though i would make my own as they charge $35 for something i could make using a tub that costs less than $10.  another idea i was thinking about was making a flexable plastic flap that was the same width as or a little smaller than the opening to the box, and making it longer than the opening. the idea is that when the cat enters the box the flap closes, covering the bottom of the opening, and when she pees it hits the flap and runs down instead of out of the box. however, i just realized a downfall with that.. she would have to enter the box totally and maybe even turn around so the flap closes all the time.. because if not then the flap will just be held up by her body, tail, or whatever, which would just basically void the point of the flap in the first place.  so.. back to the drawing board.. more ideas welcomed.  
 i have a large rubbermaid container with a hole cut in the lid, that i use for a giant litterbox. you're right, it is easy to make. however, i wish i had chosen one with a flat bottom, to make it easier to scoop! also, with all the variety out there...be sure to get one that is tall enough, but also sturdy enough. your kitty won't want something that wobbles or jiggles when she jumps up on it!  
 i had that same problem with one of my cats. i solved it by changing to a plastic storage bin that has sides that are about 2 feet tall (it is about 3 feet long). the cat can easily leap in and out but the sides are simply too high to pee over. these storage bins are amazingly cheap -- much less expensive than a traditional litter box and i find that litter doesn't stick to them like it does to the plastic used to make traditional litter boxes.  
  with however this works out  let us know what happens   
 if anyone is interested, here are the cats in question.  cricket (our current cat)   micah   fozzy    aaron   
 awww   
 noodles has also decided to venture into my room where i've been keeping luna for the past week and she is just smelling around. i will also note that noodles is still hiding but it seems to be only when she doesn't want to play with luna. there was one point in the last few minutes they were under the bed right next to each other with no hostility or hissing. i think luna still needs to learn boundaries with noodles, but i'm sure that will come with time. this is such a good day for my babies.  
 hi everyone,  i have posted threads before and have tried everything: feliway, zylkene, cystease, play, multiple litter trays, cat attract, royal canin calm food, pet remedy, scratching posts and boxes, you name it i've bought it. of course i've been to the vet multiple times also and no physical causes have been found.  so i have decided to try crate training using guidance from here http://www.ourcompanions.org/pdf/oc crate training for your cat.pdf and the lovely sunny who posted her crate training experience here about to start crate training for my extremely litter box averse cat.  i will do a daily update like sunny did in case it helps anyone in the future. fingers crossed!  day 1.  while i was setting up the crate, putting her food and water in first, i spilled some on the floor, slipped and fell backwards squarely into a litter box behind me! lovely start. a change of clothes later and at 9.30am i put her in the crate. she did some deeply unimpressed wailing. i had put the litter box at the front of the crate, her bed behind it and her food and water behind that, thinking she'd want her food farthest away from the tray but i soon found that she sat in her food bowl as she clearly wanted to sit at the very rear of the crate... so i moved the bed and the food/ water bowls to the back of the crate, next to each other on the left and right of the crate and she settled in her bed. by 9pm, she does not appear to have used the litter box but she has thrown litter everywhere. i let her out while i cleaned it up and put her back in.  
 i'm sorry that you're still having litter box avoidance issues. hopefully you and your cat will have success with the crate training. documenting it, will definitely be beneficial, as there isn't much to be found on the topic.  good luck.  hope you manage to stay out of the litter box on day 2.   
 i am officially worried now. she hasn't had a poo overnight either. she does normally poo everyday and now we're on the morning of day 3!!! should i call the vet? google desperately? her normal poo box is in the ensuite in it's usual place.  
 thank you everyone. sorry sunny, an ensuite is just a small bathroom that adjoins the bedroom. the problem with shutting her in this room is her tendency to pee on the floor which is what i'm trying to train her out of. hopefully, we've turned a corner though...  day 4 good news - she had done a no.1 & and no.2 overnight! very well buried too which she never usually does. i feel less worried now. this constipation was unusual and i'm hoping that it was just due to the changes. i am giving her as much wet food as she will eat and i am letting her out for most of the evening (without access to the ensuite in case she wees on the floor as is her wont) but i'll put her back in overnight.  
 oh, and i updated too soon because she's done another 1 & 2 in the box this evening   i'm happy with how this is going. i just hope that it will continue once the training is over and she has free range again. i am very sceptical about the front door. she has always been territorial about that and has always wanted to pee there.   i think my plan once this training is over is to put cystease in her food frequently to try to prevent any more pain based tray avoidance, but i don't know what i can do from discouraging her from weeing by the front door. she already has a litter box she's never used there, a vertical and horizontal scratching post and a feliway plug in.  
 day 7 disappointing start to the day...i let her out in the ensuite/ bedroom while i was having a little lie in and she peed in the bath. i immediately put her back in the crate. we'll push on and hope that another week helps her progress more.  
 hi sunny, thanks for asking. it's going ok, but i haven't given her much access to the bathroom. when i let her out of the crate, she goes out into the bedroom and i tend to close the door to the bathroom. she's never peed in the bedroom. so i am a bit worried about whether she has made any changes in the bathroom  also, this week we started having building work done in the house. it should be completed this week so i'm not giving her access beyond the bedroom until that is done to try and avoid upsetting her. good idea about putting food or catnip by the front door. i'll try it.  
 maybe you could put an extra litter box in the tub for now? maybe she will use it in there, and once she's used to that you could slowly move the box out of the tub and further away, closer to the spot you'd have her litter box regularly.  
 awesome!! keep us updated please i may have to resort to crate training maui pretty soon and i’ve found this thread so helpful!  
  i have to put my cat in her lb twice a day now and we are down to one accident a month. things aren't as good as when i started, but at least this is manageable for me.   i bet the cat lady is right! good luck!!  
 hello hello,  just to say that i've been allowing her full roaming privileges when i'm home. no accidents to report! she hasn't even shown interest in the front door. i guess i should be giving her unsupervised access about now. still nervous!  
 i've only had one cat that ever did this but it was adorable!! he would do it every single time i said his name. i could repeat his name over and over without fail, just a huge meow and that tail shivering happily from base to tip. he was a riot!  
 yep, my girl does this too! including the “back toe muffins” and lots of purring and trilling as well! usually in the direction of my other cat (who she loves) but sometimes at me when she wants petting. i assumed the back toe muffins were due to her only having one front leg, so it’s cute to hear that other cats do this too!  
 geoffrey has a strait tail. when he comes over for pets, the last 1/4 of his tail, curls- like a candy cane, and vibrates... it is so darned cute.. it really is...  he even walks around with his tail in a candy can position. so cute..  
 mingo does the tail thing when he is peeing standing up. luckily, i have a high-sided litter pan. that's the only time he does it.  
 we also call that happy tail when gohan does that. he does that when he is being especially affectionate. he just had some type of injury to his back which caused lack of movement in his tail recently. after a month rest and pain meds, he's mostly back to normal except his tail only reaches half-mast often. so now when he "happy tails" it's all floppy. both hilarious and sad at the same time.     
 i am sorry about gohan's accident. has the vet said if he will cmpletely recover his tail movements?  
 the only time my boy's tail vibrate or quivers is when he is peeing. guess it was a relieve   
 sinbad does this when i look at him and say his name. he sort of shivers, his ears pop up, his tail shoots into the air, vibrates and becomes super puffy. often he'll trill/chirp too.  
 you have a hell beast, too! i'll have to try your method on our beastie tonight. she's a terror as far as this mat, and i know it's from her past abuse that she doesn't like being touched there, but still... i keep checking to make sure it's not getting worse or anything, it's only been a few days since i noticed it (she gets a regular brushing daily) and it seems ok but it has to go. i've spent so much $ and time bringing her to the vet, 4 different groomers, etc. the past few days so now she's super sensitive about me trying to groom her there. hopefully she'll let us try the method you said, thank you so much.  
  she's adorable!!! it's funny how they look so peaceful and sweet but turn into maniacs so quickly. what kind of oil? i read about the olive oil thing but i'm not crazy about greasing her up, and i'd love to know if anyone's tried it and if it worked. this is my beast girl.  
 whoops sorry it posted 2x  
 as far as the bad reaction, she was an absolute terror to actually try and get sedated in the first place, but our vet has a lot of experience with traumatized rescues so it was ok. she does have a minor heart issue so it was suggested not to sedate her in any way unless absolutely necessary.   
 she definitely does, and it disgusts me to even think about it. in a nutshell, she was a rescue from south carolina (we live in ny) and when she was taken in, she had a lot of missing fur, her teeth were a mess, she had burn marks on her chest and legs (yes burn marks, we have all her medical records) she had a collar that was so tight that it started abrading her skin, her ears and eyes were both infected, she had an infected wound under her chin, she was terrified of being held or touched, 2 of her nails were broken, she was a mess, and the worst part is, she was a kitten! she's only about 11 months old now, and this poor little thing had such a rough start. she hates being enclosed, to the point where she hyperventilates. she's a totally different cat now of course, she is loving and sweet and smart, but that took a lot of time, care, and patience. this is just her only hangup, and i totally understand why.  
 this probably won't be a miracle cure but i have a high anxiety cat and we started giving him these calming treats that i really feel takes the edge off. they don't do much when it comes to vet visits but they do help when it comes to nail trimmings, thunderstorms and if "something" freaked him out.  they're called "head to tail - calming", they have them for cats and dogs so make sure you get the right one if you want to try them. i get them at pet value, not sure if you have one of those where you are from, but i'm sure you could get them on-line if not. i find that whenever he is upset, or i need to do something he does not like, i'll give him one and usually within 20 mins or so he's all calm and relaxed. then i quickly do what i need to, then give him treats (different ones), say good boy and walk away. he has with time learned that i will not and do not hurt him, and sometimes i don't even need to give him the calming treat for something like nail trimming anymore.  
 i have 4 cats, two old and two young and they don't get along. the 2 younger ones get along but that's about it. the two younger ones constantly are nagging the older ones (12 and 14 years old) like jumping on them, biting them, giving no respect. the older ones hate it and they are always hissing. they are constantly stressed and paranoid about the younger ones. the younger ones are almost 2 years old and it has always been this way. i thought it would get better but it hasn't. i know for a fact i introduced the younger ones into the house wrong, i just shoved them all in a room together instead of taking it one step at a time. how to i get my cats to get along or at least keep the younger ones out of my older cats way?  
 hi! can you separate them on occasion to give the older ones a break, and can you play with the young ones, really wear them out, use a laser light too.  
 i'm sorry your younger cats are bothering the older ones. is it any particular time of day when this happens?  
 can you separate them and go through the long step by step introduction as though it never happened? cats seem to be willing to go along with that. there are articles for making the introduction on this site. which someone else will have to find for you, because i can't get there right now. however, someone will do that, because people here are helpful with better site skills than me.  
 my youngest and oldest wish the other was dead. it's been this way for the over 3 years i've had them. they had a fight so big a couple weeks ago one actually poo'd themselves. not sure who, but my gawd what a mess. fur was everywhere and my little boy bit the bejeezus out of my arm as i separated them. (he's normally a complete mama's boy, but i found out it's true what they say about being careful breaking up a cat fight!) so starting that day i decided to pretend they're brand new to each other. the older gal lives in the bathroom for now, and i'm super slowly re-introducing them. we have "treat time" in the evenings. i pet them both with both my hands to get their scents mixed on each other. old lady growls some and eats treats and purrs. young boy is timid, but eats a couple. i've got feliway multicat going in the bathroom and living room to calm both their crazy azzes down a bit. i'm going to try letting older gal out an hour at a time under close supervision, probably this weekend. the goal here is to make sure that they're reintroduced the right way, to lessen their stress towards each other. i, too, failed to do it correctly at the start, and we're all paying for it now. i'm sure they're never gonna be besties, but i hope they can at least not fight. or at least not to the point that everything gets covered in poop, fur, and my blood..  
 awwee what's a little loss blood for our loving vampires?    slow and steady.  remember to always end things with them on the positive - even if that positive is only a minute!   
 there's no particular time of the day, usually whenever the oldest wakes up and walks downstairs to get food for example. the younger ones get so excited whenever my oldest is up walking around and they do anything they can to get near him, even though he hates it! it's like they have a weird obsession and they always have to be showing off whenever the he's around.   
 ah thanks, i'll look into that! let's hope he can give some new insights :-)  
 one thing that has helped me with scared cats is to lay on my back on the floor as close to them as i can get without them running away, look them in the eyes, then close my eyes and take a nap. every time i've done this with a cat it's had an impact on how they act towards me, it turns a cat that's afraid into at the very least a more tolerant cat that i can more easily work with.  
 i had gotten to the point with one semi-feral cat where if i was already standing over the food dish when it was eating, it would let me pet it if it wasn't looking. it wouldn't let me approach it out of nowhere though. so maybe just standing next to the food dish at regular eating times, and slowly move down? not sure how much this helps, but good luck!  
 ha, just reading your experiences makes me feel more relieved :-) i guess i was starting to feel that it takes abnormally long for them to trust me. i've done the sitting-next-to-food-bowl before but i stopped when mirre became fussy with her wet food. i didn't want to deter her further. but who knows, maybe she'll be more calm when i'm not tiptoeing around but sitting next to her instead. thanks!!   
 hi and welcome! sorry fiona is so stressed, but it sounds like she has a wonderful person to help her adjust to her new home. for cats, territory is everything so two months isn't very long for her to be adjusted to a new home, new people and a new cat and dog. it sounds like she is doing pretty ok.  i know @furballsmom usually has some great suggestions for stress relief (feliway, calming collars, quiet harp music) and she may need some more time to get adjusted to her new life.  we added a new kitty about a year ago, and she still is rather worried about our other kitty gohan. it was a long introduction with lots of chasing, and she still acts like fiona around him - skirting the room, growling if he is too close. over time it will get better. just make sure she has a room of her own that she can retreat to.  one thing that may help is play therapy - play with your lovable oaf and she may start to watch and slowly get more acclimated to him. then feed them a tasty treat together. over time she will realize it's safe with you and her new family.  
 some things that helped with freya's anxiety were...  -places where she can feel safe like window platforms, high furniture she's allowed on and able to get onto 9 think 6' bookshelves), and, ironically, a cat carrier with a cat bed in it placed on a 5' shelf 9 she's in that right now in fact.)  -quiet parts of the house  -a cat fountain with a dish drying pad under it ( seriously, when upset my cat would drink from the fountain)  -interactive play like fetch and wand toys  in freya's case, i finally gave her kitty prozac, so talking to your vet about it to see if they think it appropriate is something that you can explore if nothing else works, but most cats don't need it, and you have lots of things to try first.  -another option is to try feliway difusers or sprays. some people have decent results with them.  
 hi! you've gotten a lot of terrific feedback! as @karenkat mentioned, low volume classical harp music is known to help cats relax, and there is also an app called relax my cat, and there is musicforcats.com. sometimes a calming diffuser helps, or you could add zylkene to her food. all the best of luck to you and your fur babies, and let us know how things go   
 what a beauty! i love her tail!  we have some more ... i’ll say careful ... cats that are not sure about the bed. gohan will cuddle my bf, he’s very confident and in charge but he generally doesn’t trust the bed if people move. i think to many cats it feels unstable and hazardous.   of course you can’t kick trin of the bed if you tried. and believe me, we have tried lol!  
 we moved about 4 months ago with our 2 2(ish)-year-old cats. the two weeks was a mess with movers and workers constantly in and out, us unpacking and just the general chaos of a new place. both cats were very tentative for at least a month. it is hard to explain but they just weren't themselves. that faded over time, but one guy is not too happy with one of our rooms but i think that is because the prior family's dog spent a lot of time there.  
 i have been where you are now. it is a hard process to go through but you will get there. in 2001 i moved with three cats from a one bed room apartment into a 3 level 2 bed room 2 1/2 bathroom townhouse. it was a lot more space then any of my cats had ever seen. i knew nothing about how cats react to moving at the time. i let them out of their carriers and figured they would just explore and get used to the new place on their own. that did not happen for a while. they ran into the basement and hid. their litter boxes were already downstairs. i put their food, water and toys with them in the basement. we also did not wash two of our big bath towels before we moved. i took the dirty towels and placed them down stairs with my cats. they hid in the basement. i think i hardly saw them for at least two weeks. we checked the food, water and litter to make sure everything with that stuff was normal. hubby and i took turns hanging out in the basement sitting on a cement floor just talking to them while they were hiding. they did start interacting with us in the basement but would not come up stairs at all. we just kept interacting with them in their comfort zone until they were ready to come out. one day the youngest of three followed my hubby up the stairs. he picked her up and sat her on his lap on the couch. she decided that it was safe upstairs and slept with us that night. the next cat to come up hid in a cabinet in my kitchen for 24 hours. he did come out to eat and drink when we went to bed. once tegato came out of the cabinet he started exploring the house on his own. the next day hubby went down stairs to interact with claude and he was able to carry him up stairs and do cuddle time on the couch. once claude saw the other 2 cats upstairs he began exploring too. i do not remember exactly how long the process took since it was so long ago.  i am going to now make some suggestions based on my personal experience with this issue. 1.) take a deep breath and try to relax yourself. cats pick up on our stress. 2.) sit on the floor near where she is hiding and just talk to her. you could also try sitting on the floor reading a book to her. getting down on her level will make her feel more comfortable. 3.) this process will happen at the pace your cat sets and just be patient. you can try placing treats where she is hiding. let her decide when she is ready to let you pet her. you can work on her getting used to the new space once her interactions with you go back to normal. it is very normal for a cat to hide when they are scared of a new space.  4.) when she does come out of hiding to interact with you reward her with some treats or play time with her favorite toy. this will help her understand that good things happen to her in her new home. 5.) i also agree about washing the carpets and floors if someone else with pets lived there before you. this was not an issue for me because i was the first person to live in my townhouse. we bought the place when it was under construction and everything in it was brand new.  
 hi @jacobincat not to hijack the thread but have you tried some low volume classical harp music, or the app relax my cat?  
 i haven't yet, but i will. or some calm ambient brian eno perhaps?  i am not sure how good lucy's hearing is, though, so it may not make too much difference. but i will try. it will calm me down at least! (any recommendations for other threads here discussing how to help traumatized cats settle in?)  
 unfortubately, they're not. she belonged to my boyfriends sister, who got her from a shelter. his sister never got really attached to her, and she ended up moving to a place that doesn't allow animals, which is how i got her. which i'm sure is adding to the fear, being moved from shelter to new owner to another new owner. i hope to be her final move, though.  
 i rescued a 6 week old kitten now named mikko back in july of this year and he has became my absolute handsome child. i have two other cats, one 13 years old and one 6 years old. he tends to leave my eldler cat alone, because she is just kind of the queen of the house and i think he knows she’s a little old to deal with his energy to say the least, lol. however, he will chase my 6 year old cat around when he gets these little bursts of energy which quite often, he will pounce on her and bite the back of her neck and she will do that meow/holler cats do. this however does not concern me because she is dramatic and will do the same thing when picked up, but start purring 5 second later. and he has never bitten too hard to the point of drawing blood. he just irritates the hell out of her. i have two ferret’s as well that he gets along with well for the most part, but he is always doing the same thing, pouncing in the and since they’re smaller now dragging them by their neck. i yell his name and he runs off, i never scold him. he bites my fingers, all the time. i have plenty of toys, plenty. my house is filled with them. i just don’t know how to stop his biting tendencies. i believe since i found him alone and in a dumpster that he probably did not have a mom to teach him how rough is too rough. he is otherwise a wonderful little baby and for the most part gets along with the other animals. i know i can use apple bitter to get him to stop biting me, but will that stop him from biting my other fur babies? maybe it’s just a kitten thing, and he’ll grow out of it.. ? hopes and advice!!  
 hi everyone,  my almost six month old boy, ramses, has developed a rather difficult and annoying habit that makes feeding time slightly stressful. he acts like he is starving (he is fed three times a day, kitten food, about 9-11oz of food a day) every time and cannot wait. i have two cats so i have to scoop their food into their dishes and then give it to them, but as soon as he realizes i'm feeding them he jumps onto the counter and tries to eat right out of the can. no matter how many times i remove him, he just jumps right back up and makes it near impossible. i've ended up having to scoop everything onto their plates in a fast and furious race, getting everything all over in the process, just so i can get it ready before he jumps up again and tries gobbling everything down.   i don't really want to have to shut him in another room while i prepare the food, but i almost feel like i have no other choice! anyone else experience this? did their cats outgrow it? or maybe he's just so hungry and i'm not feeding him enough?  
 both of mine (10 and 12 yrs old) still get on the counter when i take out the can. i don't open the can until they are back on the floor. if they jump back up i take the can and stand away from the counter with it.  
 this is a good idea, though i fear ramses would never get back on the floor by himself. i might have to remove him or walk away from the counter as you said. i'll give it a try.    duncanmac said: ↑  tough love time:  every time - every single time - he jumps up on the counter, put him on the floor, tell him "wait" (or some other simple command that you will use every single time), put the can in the fridge and leave the kitchen for 5 minutes. then start over.  if you see him getting ready to jump up on the counter, point at him and say "wait" try to mess up his flight path when you do this.  yeah, its going to take a hour to feed them the first few times, but it should sink in.click to expand...  a great tactic as well, only problem is that i don't have that kind of time in the morning, since i feed them before work and need to also get myself ready and out the door. i've also been having to shut him in the bathroom because when he finishes, he goes for celeste's food (she eats more slowly) and he hasn't caught on that he gets a time out every time he does that yet. hopefully he will, because he sounds so pitiful in the bathroom! i will try doing this with his later meals though, when i have time, and the part you said about messing up their flight path is a great idea. i also just feel really bad because my other girl, celeste, is so good when she's waiting to get fed, and she would have to suffer for his impatience, lol.  i should coordinate a dance based on this called "don't feed the kitty."   
 @tobidadog lol — that’s amazing!  and so creative! unfortunately ramses is quite the jumper so i think he’d be able to clear that!  
 kittens are growing and use a lot of energy. maybe the kitten really is starving. do you leave him some dry food out all of the time so he can free feed?  
 i find it odd that my cat keeps biting me a lot whenever i want to pet her. she used to be more calm. but ever since we got her spayed, her behavior changed. it’s not even playful biting. it’s actual biting. she is around maybe 9 months old. i don’t know if it’s because of the age or that she got spayed.  
 almost 4 week’s ago she got spayed. a few days after her spaying, she got an infection. she didn’t want to eat or drink. but she got treated for it. and now she’s fine. she eats and drinks like normal. her incision has fully healed. i didn’t adopt her or anything. she just arrived to my home and we took her in. she was actually pretty young.  
 awww... thanks for giving the sweet girl a home.  she probably now just needs to learn not to bite hard. hopefully the tips in the links will help.   
 oh my goodness, this is absolutely good progress forward!! good for you, keep doing what you're doing, and let us know how things go, this is terrific news!  
 hello all,  my lillie has a rather peculiar behaviour, she is a very determined kneader. it starts off where she will be laying on me purring, getting pats and cuddles for a few minutes and then she will suddenly get up and walk over to a bathrobe (which i've given over and leave out because i can't wear it without her following me around to knead in it). from there she kneads furiously, purring away until she basically passes out from exhertion. her brother also kneads (usually when he sees her doing it) but he gets bored of it after a moment or two.  i thought she would have bored of it by now (she's nearly 11 months old) but it's the same routine every morning. cuddles for a time then immediately if for kneading.   i don't think the kittens were weaned too early. i took over fostering their entire litter at 12 weeks and before that they were sequestered with their mom in a room (i think their mom was a friendly barn cat). they were involved with the humane society from day one (mom was spayed after they were weaned).  anyway? is this normal? should i be concerned? i've never tried to interfere as lillie is also our more skittish cat (though she's also confident and will give her brother heck if he pushes her).  
 my omen does the same thing but at night. she sucks too. omen was weaned too early though. lillie's mom was probably really attentive and she just needs that comforting every day. it makes her happy. i have another kneader who's mom was a lunatic.  they do it when they feel safe and content, i think it seems like lillie is probably happy.  
 i had a cat who had a 'binkie' a large crocheted lap blanket she used to drag around the house. since no harm is being done and it makes her happy, why not?  
 @maelin - easy as pie. at the top of every forum - directly across from the forum name is a post new thread button:     just click it and start sayin' silly things. at least, that's what i do. .   
  it knocked my boots, socks, and part of my pinkie toe off! @maelin....   
 @maelin - i have eleven cats; every day is a fantastic day.        1 bruce 1 said: ↑  not me. i'm all serious business. ...hey did i tell you guys that a cat of ours let loose a tiny turd in a fit of excitement, and fetchy dog brought it to me?click to expand...  @1 bruce 1 - this sounds serious.   .   
 @maelin - i'm sixty-four, and god only knows how old @1 bruce 1 really is. .   
  we're a snowshoe friendly place!!  can she deal with a tiny little deformed cat that stalks up to another, delivers the first pathetic half-slap/half-touch, then shrieks and runs away like she's been shanked?   
 my first car was a brontosaurus.    
 you have to teach them to kneel, or lie down like they teach camels! i actually got to ride on a camel once. it was a great feeling that somehow i'd managed to get over the hump.  *silence* ok so i'm not funny.   
  i need a snowshoe.   our tortie girl is the closest thing i'll probably ever have, because we often say we will go on a day trip, come home, and find all the dogs locked in a tiny cage together while the tortie girl has managed to order a pizza and is cleaning out the contents of the refrigerator and has hijacked the bank account.   
  if you love snowshoes, listen to me, you'd benefit from some psychiatry; when they commit you, i will assume, there'll be no snowshoes in your rubber room.         1 bruce 1 said: ↑  our tortie girl is the closest thing i'll probably ever have, because we often say we will go on a day trip, come home, and find all the dogs locked in a tiny cage together while the tortie girl has managed to order a pizza and is cleaning out the contents of the refrigerator and has hijacked the bank account.click to expand...  @1 bruce 1 - i've had torties too. maybe it's time to write a tortitude étude.... .   
 at least someone knows i need a rubber room  i could write a book on torties. one minute you want to boot them out of the house and 2 seconds later they hypnotize you with cuteness.  baby girl is rather good at this..sigh  (<--whats with this smiley guy anyway? poor dude needs a good dentist)    
 here is my tortie point snowshoe - speedy    you can see her snowshoe cleverness, plotting and planning, above.   here you can see the tortie in her coat -    tortitude. she is saying "watch out" here. she can be very intimidating.    
 . @1 bruce 1 - you've fallen down on the job, o master of humour!  oh tortitude, oh tortitude, it always leaves me feelin' screwed; oh tortitude, oh tortitude, a frightful mood do you exude. their ways are crude, and often lewd, and i conclude they're simply rude; oh tortitude, oh tortitude, engenders such disquietude!  oh tortitude, oh tortitude, you use up all my fortitude; oh tortitude, oh tortitude, you prey upon my servitude; my sofa's scratched, my shoes are chewed, you knead me when my knees are nude; oh tortitude, oh tortitude, with attitude you are imbued.  come on, bruce - one more vuce verse! .  
 fudge is 14 months old and still kneads. when he's cuddling up to me on a blanket in the evening he'll often knead.  
 ours is dilute too, and she's a mischief master! i would look at context. what is she kneading (your things, you, other cats things, her things, all?), when is she kneading (when she's tired, after she's eaten, after she's played, after she's had an upsetting experience, etc.)? it's like a kid with a pacifier to me. they want that thing when they're upset sure, but mostly it's a matter of comfort and something very familiar they started doing as newborns (same with kittens and kneading.) baby girl kneads the crap out of my arms, and drops globbers of happy spit in my lap daily.   
 my 5.5 month old kitten tiger is starting to annoy the older cats! he does it with the dog as well, but it's more funny with him. with the two older females - he will rise up on his back legs and bat at them with his front paws when they are just sitting there doing nothing! they do not like him at all!!! i'm wondering if he is being aggressive/dominating or just playing? he is due to be neutered at 6 months old, but i wonder if it is because he is reaching sexual maturity?      
 oh, wow! sorry, but those pics are funny! i have nothing really to offer, other than wanting to acknowledge your post. but, if it will help any others who read this post - how long has he been in your home? if he has been there a while, and is now just starting to do this, it could very well have to do with maturing. i kind of don't think it looks like playing, but could be very wrong...  until he is neutered, i would try to intercept in this interaction as much as possible because you don't want the other cats to really learn to despise him - especially if once he's neutered he calms down.  
 in college, my stuff was in milk crates. my kittens were best buds. one kitten would stand on one column of milk crates, the other would get on the other column. after the traditional stare down, at a silent signal from the great cat in the sky, ritual combat would begin, where they would take turns whacking each other on the head whack-a-mole style.  yes, this is certainly playing. a bit less usual than plain ole jumping on the older cat, but still a familiar variant. no less annoying to older cat to be sure. funnier to watch for the humans though.  
 he's a beauty! yep, it was those big old paws that made me sure he is going to turn out to be a big guy!!  
 moo shu looks as if she’s deciding whether she might have found a new source of protein.   none of mine ever lick me. drool on me, yes. all three of them. and mocha nibbles gently on my arm.   
 my angel cucumella was veryy affectionate and had many ways of showing how much she cared but she was not a licking cat. sombra's licking is a permanent reaction. she will lick my hand when i rub her belly, when i brush her, when i scratch her chin and so on. some times when she sits next to the computer she will lick my hand on the mouse. i don't know how to interpret her constant need to lick.   
 one of my mother's cats has always loved to groom everyone else; people, dogs, other cats! we know he was born a bit premature and he was tiny and sickly when he was adopted. three days later my mother adopted a 2 year old cat we'd fallen in love with while meeting him at the shelter. she acted like his surrogate mother. he was only about 1 pound at the time. she would bathe him and play with him; teaching him manners.   it wasn't long before he started grooming one of the dogs. she would sit for it. the other dog didn't like it so much. then he started grooming people. he will be 15 next month. mostly he sticks to grooming fingers now. both dogs have crossed the bridge now and the only remaining cat doesn't like it. my kids think it's funny so they don't mind.  
 olive grooms herself a lot. sometimes while sitting on my chest. if she gets really into it she includes me by licking my face or hair. it’s funny because she will get a long strand of hair and kind of get stuck licking the whole length, and she doesn’t love it. usually one hair lick will do. she recently started headbutts.  trin love-chomps - hard - and i think he realized recently that petting stops or slows to prevent it. so now he started gently licking once in a while instead.  gohan suckles the bf in the crook of his elbow. we assume he is after that sweet sweet elbow milk, and one day it will flow ...  
 after i shower willow insists on licking one arm dry. not sure if this is affection grooming or if she simply likes the taste of shower water. otherwise she does not groom me or even head butt me.  
 amelia loves to groom me. to her, my lap is as good a place as any for a bath, and she'll always alternate between licking herself and my arms/legs/hands. occasionally she goes for my face, if she can reach it. sometimes there'll be gentle love bites in there too (i spend a lot of time being grateful for her mother and siblings, because her bite/scratch inhibition is very good, and she never hurts me).    
 yeah, i think that toothbrush is officially your cat's now.   human toothpaste isn't meant to be eaten/swallowed, so i wouldn't use it on "his" toothbrush.  
 fluoride is toxic in large amounts, too, and to a cat even a little can be a "large amount". the residual flavor on a rinsed brush shouldn't be a problem though.   i found out one of mine was chewing on my toothbrush too! so now that toothbrush is his, and sits in the toothbrush holder bristles-up. my new toothbrush is stored bristles-down, lol.  
 hi! we have a kitten who is about 7 months old and spayed. just took her to the vet this week, so she is all healthy and gets along swimmingly with our other cats. we live in a 3 story historic house, and ever since we brought her home, however, she has peed in the living room when we are in it. from trial and error, we have discovered it is because she doesn't want to be away from us. she used to also poop, but that seems to have stopped. we now try to watch her and see when she looks like he is about to go and take her up to the litter box- then she goes fine! when we are not home, no accidents! if we are on the second floor, she goes up to the third floor ok (and not down to the first to pee in the living room). has anybody encountered anything like this? i work from home the first half of the day, so it is very time consuming and nerve-wracking to be so vigilant. we have carpet, which makes it all worse, but we are going to try a litter box down here and slowly move it up, for now, i just worry she will go back to the same thing if the reason is what we think it is... ideas? thanks!  
 can you put a litterbox in the living room?  
 gohan gets bitey if he’s overstimulated (ramped up from petting, running around or playing) or irritated. and he does just that - grabs my hand gently but with claws and “bites” but not hard enough to break skin. i look at it as a way to lash out and get it out of his system but not aggressive and still playing by our “rules”.  
 did you give him his own room for the first couple of weeks, introducing him gradually to the other members of the family? this is how cat behavior experts suggest doing when adopting a new cat. this is in effect what you are doing right now, which is a good decision. as for the closet, i believe the experts would suggest temporarily putting a box in there, and gradually moving it closer to the regular boxes on that floor of the house. i pray you will not return him to the shelter! love and patience are key, along with consistency. jackson galaxy, cat behaviorist extraordinaire, host of animal planet's "my cat from hell", author of several books including cat daddy, and host of many videos on youtube, has lots of great advice on litterbox issues. you can seek him out on social media, as well. good luck, and please do be patient with your new family member. the previous posters have some very good ideas. to them, i would add that a good enzymatic cleaner is essential for "accidents" -- we have used nature's miracle-just for cats, widely available wherever cat products are sold -- for years and think it is the best.   
 what gorgeous cats, all three! bubba looks like he has some maine coon genes, and of course winifred definitely has siamese genes. calico beauty fluffy is gorgeously colorful!   
 lol, maybe the problem is he doesn't like the name bubba. he might be a little sensitive about his weight beautiful cats.   
 thank you all, we went out tonight and got another big litter box, and are about to clean out the bedroom closet to put it in there for him at least for now. i will update on if this helps.   thank you for the comments, i think they’re all quite pretty myself  and i wondered if he had some maine coon, since he is so tall and long not just chubby although he definitely is haha.  
 a family that eats, plays, sleeps together stays together! lol   
 after a year my cat coco, rescued, will leave my bedroom on her own and sleep on my couch. still afraid of my cat maggie. maggie tolerates her but still hisses. they will even sleep on my couch and eat together  
 oh, poor cat!!! *very bad decision on their part!* hope they do the right thing and prioritize their cat.   
 full integration should always be your goal, not prioritizing one pet over another.   
 the three not-yet-amigos are eating together for the first time tonight. oddly enough, bubba does not use the 3rd litter box added to our closet where he was messing, but it did stop him from messing there... so i guess we’ll see what hppens. there has been nothing in that box from any of the 3 of them! they are slowly adjusting i think, my white one winnie antagonizes him and will run up and attack him from behind. how do i handle it? i still have to get on them a couple times a day to leave each other alone, but i think we are taking baby steps in the right direction.  
 that photo is gold! hard to tell you what will happen next they are so unpredictable. but really that photo says a whole lot  
 no, i would not move it, and i would show him again that it is there in case he wants to use it. again, love and patience are key here. has anything changed in your home very recently to cause him to feel stressed, threatened, scared, or otherwise needing to be reassured? remember, cats may mark things that belong very much to you to show you they "own" you. i would not expect a cat or a human being never to make a mistake or repeat a mistake. in this case, i would wash the bedding, put it back on, and give your cat a lot of loving attention to reassure him.   
 he peed on our bed tonight while we were sleeping. we were up late washing the sheets and i just woke up to my feet wet with pee... i’m trying to be patient, i do love him, but this has to end  i have also been making a point to give him lots of my attention in common areas as well as our bed/bedroom.  
 i bought a mattress protector on ebay or amazon -- not expensive and it repels liquids. also, friends whose cats are incontinent put the large "wee wee pads" on the bed. you can also put a plastic tarp on the bed.   
 i would also check to make sure there is no longer any spray left outside from the feral. he may have sprayed your windows, doors or in flower beds or something. i honestly don't know if the black light would be useful outside, but you could give it a try. and if you can't see if there is any residue left behind from the feral or if there may still be one that is coming around (you never know), start by spraying a deterrent around your property (hedges, fence line, flower beds, windows and doors etc...) then, after a couple of applications........mark your house yourself! yes, yourself. we did this one time to keep a couple of intruders out of our yard and to stop them from marking the windows. these two were really upsetting our resident cats and one of them kept peeing all around the basement (under windows) and the front door upstairs. so we got this advice from a co-worker, and it worked. so in the cover of night, my husband and i peed around our yard. i took the flower beds and he took the windows (he had better aim!). and it worked!!! i think that because our cats could then smell "us", they were no longer threatened, and our one cat stopped peeing in the house. and i assume because we are "bigger animals" than the two intruders, they simply quit trying to mark their territory, we never saw then come into our yard at all after that.  go ahead and laugh if you must, and i don't mind if you think i'm crazy. but it worked for my co-worker as well as myself.  
 my husband and i are both in the national guard and for some reason my cat likes to pee on our duffel bags, ruck sacks and other gear when they sit idle.  i had this same issue with a cat i had previously and for some reason this one likes to do it too.  there's nothing else in the house that she goes after.  we have one other female cat (who acts as a doting big sis to her) and a dog who she gets along with.  she's very energetic and hasn't shown any signs of stress or depression.  the litter boxes/litter are to their liking and are always clean, the vet says she's in good shape,  and she gets a lot of playtime and attention.  there are no threats or stray cats outside either.  i've even tried feliway to no avail.  that canvas/nylon cloth is somehow appealing to her and i want to know if there's a solution.  the bags are placed on shelves in the basement and sometimes in our bedroom and in neat order most of the time.    part  of me feels like she associates the bags with our departure and wants us to bring her scent along but it's obviously not a very appealing way to go about it.  i am pretty understanding when it comes to cat behavior but it's just a bummer when we're gearing up to go and we find pee all over our things and we have to wash it at the last minute.  has anyone else had a similar issue or found the cause for it?    
 please excuse the untidiness in the background. betty was lounging on the kitchen side when oliver wandered up to her. he then looked her in the eye and made himself as tall as he could before lying down with his back to her. i could tell he was saying, "i'm the boss." i think he was indicating that he was 'the main man' and for her to remember that. do you agree?     
 hi everyone,  first time poster here. a bit of background: i have loved and owned cats all of my life. my parents had siamese and i grew up with birmans (both now 16 years old and live with my parents). when i moved out and got my own place and full time job i adopted a fluffy rescue kitten named alex. for a couple of days as he settled in he was meowing pretty much all night, as expected for a kitten in a new environment. i worked full time so was away most of the day but when i would get home alex was a dream, so affectionate and loving and always up for a game and purring. he followed me around like a dog and was my best friend. i lived in a second storey building and he was content to be inside and lounging around the balcony and complex but never venturing near the road or too far from my house- he was always in sight and always seemed content. unfortunately my long term relationship broke up, and my lease on the house ended. my ex had stable accomodation and loved alex so i was happy for him to have “custody” of him, but sad all the same but know alex is in good care.  after a year or so of missing having an “alex” in my life, and having a small house that allows pets i thought the time was right to adopt another cat. this time i was determined come hell or high water, relationship break ups or otherwise, whatever cat i got would be with me for its whole natural life.  i happened upon an ad for a 4 month old burmese boy kitten needing a home. i went to meet him, admittedly knowing nothing about burmese cats, but straight away i was smitten. he was so friendly and affectionate since the moment i walked in the door. he slept on my lap the whole drive home purring.  i named him jon, he’s a lilac burmese, desexed, now 6 months old. the trouble is, i am single and i work full time. i am away from the house 8-12 hours a day. when i get home i immediately shower him with attention and play with all sorts of games and toys. i built him an extensive cat tree covered in carpet for scratching. he has access to windows and i take him to play in the yard supervised daily. however, the more time i have spent away from the house that day, the more restless and pacing and yowling he does. no matter what i do, he just paces the house with an anguished sounding yowl... for hours... non stop. the days that i have off work, i spend as much time as possible with him and he is a completely diffferent cat- the howling stops and he is content to play and purr and sleep on my lap smiling.   i know the cause of his pacing and yowling is because he needs more stimulation and social contact during the day. unfortunately i can’t stop full time work, but i have resigned my current job and am moving to a smaller town where i will be in a role with less hours away from home and a minimal drive to and from work, so more time spent with him. i made these decisions in big part for his wellbeing. i’m also intending to move into a large house with a large enclosed yard/ patio/ somwhere i can build him a large outdoor run because a lot of his howling is directed at the windows and doors but no ay would i let him out unsupervised in my current place because it’s so close to the road.   i’m seriously considering getting a second burmese to keep him company while i’m at work, but i’m unsure if this will solve the problem?   i know i /should/ have researched the breed more, i was naive about their needs when i got him, and i regret that but i do not regret getting him and i made a commitment to him. i want to give him the best life possible, but feel so sad and guilty every day when he howls constantly because i can’t stop full time work for the foreseeable.  does anyone have any ideas/ advice/ experience? is it possible for me to give jon a happy life and meet his needs while having a full time job? i love the cat and don’t want to ever give him up but i also want him to be happy.   thanks in advance, evk  
 she feels it’s a safer area. can you describe the nest you have planned/ set up for her? i agree that your daughter’s bed is not a safe spot and also not convenient but there must be something that momma cat feels makes it the best nesting spot. if you can figure out what she is seeking you could set up a new area and see if she prefers that spot.   she might like the smell or texture of the blankets. your daughter’s bed might also be in a smaller quiet room. brainstorm and try to figure out the characteristics and emulate them elsewhere.    momma cat might also want the familiar smell of your daughter. in which case you could use one of her shirts or bedding that smells like her to use as bedding in a new potential nest area.  
 rubysmama, you might be right. they're the lights of our lives (shh! don't tell the grandkids!) i just don't want anything heavy to fall on them or have them hide so well that we can't find them. it's a real no-man's-land in there.  
 oh my goodness!! they are absolutely darling, and yep, you're right, they are completely irresistible and trouble pretty much radiates. gee whiz they are cuties!!  
 they're paws-itively adorable.   it's not quite as purr-fect with the wings cropped, but in case you want to use it for your profile pic, i've edited it to the correct size for you.     
 hi. another article, just in case it can offer you some additional insight.   ouch! how to stop your kitten from biting - petcha  
 a few weeks ago i bought a catgenie cat box. its a cat litter box that cleans itself... it litteratly washes itself. it's basically a toilet for cats. (here's the link if you want to know more about it http://www.catgenie.com) anyway, it takes a litte bit to get them used to it because of the washable granules, they are sorta like plastic cat litter. so you are supposed to put the old litter box beside the genie and not clean the other one so they will be more likely to choose to use the genie since it's clean. well oh boy it took probably 3 weeks to get them to use it! i had to actually place their poop inside it to show them that this is where you can go. so... here i thought they finally are ready to just use the genie and than not the old box, got rid of the old cat box and a day later i find poop on the floor... but it was full of pee in the genie. so i thougt okay i'll just put this in the genie so they know that this is where it's okay to be... well, next day on the floor again! and again... and again... and again! my one cat nono is 2 years old and kobie is 13... i think kobie started pooping on the floor and than nono just followed. i'm not sure what the best approach is for this... they get so much love and attention and they are on good food and fresh water... the box cleans every time they use it so its literally always clean. please if anyone can help me with this any advice is much appreciated!  
 have u fixed this problem!? i have the same issue!! 2 cats, peeing in the cat genie, pooping on floor outside box. went good for 2 days, then not....got the old litter box out again and slowly have been adding the new litter to the old litter so they get use to it it’s not working. 1 cat just refuses to poop in eaither cat box now!  
 i have the same issue, my cat (ragdoll) started to use the litter box when i bought it but he quit using it. he pees in the box just fine but poops outside of it or in random places in my basement. growing very frustrated with this situation. when i put him in a confined area with the catgenie he will start to give in and use it but it takes a couple days.   for those of you whose cat is pooping outside the catgenie, do either of you have the upper rim added to it or the dome? i was thinking of buying the dome to see if my cat would prefer it then.  
  i do have the dome.....i have tried it without for a month....no change. put it back on......no change. i however like it on.   
 cats switch behaviors when sick or stressed quite often. never had a cat with fleas but it makes sense -- hiding because of discomfort isn't unusual. plus sounds like your vet nailed the dx. as i understand it, the tiny scabs on the neck is one of the classic signs of fleas, and coupled with the twitchy back, seems like a pretty easy dx despite being an indoor only cat (vets are always going on about how you can bring stuff back on your shoes and such). so hopefully, your cat should be back to normal in a couple of days, and vet did the right thing by leaving the door open for a return visit if the hiding doesn't resolve.  i think you can justifiably be calm!  
 some cats are just very dramatic about their dislike of vet visits and go into hiding post visit to recover from their trauma. just ignore the behavior and the cat will come around.  
 we have a 4 year old neutered male cat, boots, and just adopted a 1 year old neutered male cat, jack. we have had boots since he was a kitten. boots was neutered when he was a kitten. jack was neutered a month ago. we have had jack for one week. we did the slow introductions in separate rooms, under the door, and eating on opposite sides. all the tricks of exchanging scents. things went well. we intoeduced them in the living room last night and jack was very excited to meet boots. he was in the communal cat room and did well with other cats at the shelter. but boots has always been pretty territorial and growled and hissed at jack. jack showed some submissive behaviors as well as ignoring boots somewhat but then when boots continued to be mean (hissing, growling) jack decided to take initiative and tried to dominate boots. they spent some time together towards the end of the night on the couch and it ended okay, but i don't think they established a pecking order as things were still tense. i separated them for the night. then today around noon i let them out in the living room together again. they touched noses and things were good. they hung out and were comfortable being near each other. around 4pm i was playing with boots and when he jumped off the couch with his toy that has a stick, it made a banging noise on the floor when he jumped and this startled jack and jack got very agressive and cornered boots. when boots tried to finally run away, jack went after him and tried to attack him. i separated them thinking this was a freak thing, jack misunderstood what happened with boots and the toy. (they both have their own bedrooms). around 10pm we let them out again, boots hid under the bed, and jack joined him, growled a little, boots got nervous and decided to leave to the living room. jack immediately pursued boots into the living room, cornering him. the second boots tried to run for his bedroom, jack tried to attack him the whole way there. they both got under the bed. no fight under the bed. but we weren't going to give jack the chance after what we saw. my husband lifted the mattress and pushed jack out. jack was put in his room. jack is using boots's litter box. he's showing dominant behavior even though he was not in the communal cat room and showed submissive behaviors there. he was neutered only a month ago. they were getting along great and now jack tries to intimidate and attack boots. which is weird because we totally expected the opposite since boots has always been the alpha in our old neighborhood and has always fought back. he used to constantly square off with the neighborhood cat. now he is running away and always under the bed and afraid. i understand it's only been a week. but i'm really concerned. it's really hard to see my cat that i've had four years be bullied and scared in his own home. they've only interacted the last 24 hours. half has been good. half has been bad. what changed? is it going to change? i'm worried jack misinterpreted the toy hitting the ground and boots jumping as aggressive and now won't stop attacking boots. boots was tolerating him pretty well after jack defended himself the first night. i can't tell if boots is being submissive or just avoiding a fight. why is jack still pursuing? or is it too early to tell? so many questions, i've never had multiple cats, and boots is my first cat. jack came into the shelter as a stray, but he seems like he used to belong to someone by how social he is. please please help. i care about them both but need to know proper times of when to intervene and how to discipline a cat properly and efficiently.  
 he has itp. he almost suddenly died from it his platelet count got to 7,000. they're back up to normal now within the week of him being on it but the vet was horrified and no reason why it happened so she spent days researching, googling and talking with other vets on what to do since she hasnt seen a kitten with it for no cause and they all agreed 6 months on pred and then wean off. if it comes back then it will be very bad news. so we all are just scared about it since there wasnt a cause of it. he was bleeding under the skin everywhere. he looked awful.   he isnt lethargic...just honestly acts like your typical older house cat that sleeps most of the time and occasionally gets playful. nothing near what a cat under 1 should act like.  
 a kitten that doesn't want to play is worrisome. i had the same sort of problem - sweet gum wanted to play but was really vicious about it, hence the name. i took her to the vet and asked for a full body x-ray, it only takes one to cover most of a young cat. it turned out that she already had an inch of arthritis on her spine.  the vet gave her a medcap (sp) shot which she was allergic too (made a sort of oozing burn place at injection site and she was freaking out.) got a cortisone shot, which i'd prefer not to due to possible side effects. she's now on dasuquin every day, which is cheaper and safer than the other two. she is a lot better tempered and plays. dasuquin is like cosaquin, it's for joints and isn't aspirin based.  what it comes down to is you're never too young for arthritis, despite what your vet might say. if you can possibly afford the x-ray it's worth it.  wrote that then caught up on your next post and changed to this.  i'm sorry to hear about your little one's troubles. good energy to you both.  
 poor baby  he had xrays done. trust me he had every test in the book done it cost us 1200 dollars to rule everything out. everything came back negative except a small heart murmur that went away with age as the vet thought and his spleen and liver were larger looking but after her comparing to other kitten xrays she said it was normal to be bigger as they grow and she isnt concerned. he was anemic from bleeding under his skin and his platelets were almost non existent. she suspected a vaccine reaction (i fostered him so he got every single shot, dewormer etc) so hes on a no vaccine list from her he hasnt even gotten his rabies or felv shot but she said no shots again keep him inside.   very strange but when he was in my foster care him and his brother broke out in 105 fevers for 3 days... no other symptoms the foster place wasnt concerned since his brother got it first then healed on his own and morton did too. the sister never got sick. fast forward to months and months later his brother i think has leukemia and morton falls ill with this. we think it's a genetic thing bad health because the sister who never got sick before still is healthy. not sure but we are praying to anything that when he gets off pred that this wont come back. morton is brought in every 5 weeks for blood tests to recheck platelets and iron and to see how his body is responding to pred and going on his last two months on it he has nothing bad going on...a little tubby but that's normal and a little more spooked but not all the time   
 it sounds as though you have a good vet, who thinks of everything. very rare, and a good thing.  
 i would lay a heavy throw rug in front of your bedroom door so that gets the scratching instead of your carpet  
 all good information above!!! but, i have to ask the question: does this kitten pee anywhere else (other than the litter box) when being denied access to your room?  
 congrats on becoming a "crazy cat lady".    i love that the stroller is for your cat's birthday.  does that mean it will be wrapped up until the big day?   though it's a great idea, especially for city dwellers, cat strollers don't come up on the forums too often. here's one older thread though:  they love stroller rides!  do post pics of the birthday boy, after he opens his gift.  and definitely post back on how he enjoys strolling through the city.   meanwhile, sending early birthday wishes to your boy.   oh... here's another thread to keep in mind for the birthday pics: birthday pics  
 congratulations! i bet she'll love it!  i have a kitty stroller too!   
 hi! along with the great advice you've already gotten, see if you can get pee pads that are really absorbent so that the pee is wicked down into interior layers, that might help when she goes during her sleep. i found some that were washable/reusable, and they work well to keep cleanup easier.  also, try a ticking clock, it mimics a heartbeat and can help young ones that don't have mama or siblings to snuggle with.  you could try, when it looks like she's about to take a nap, a sock partly filled with dry rice and very gently heated in a microwave. test it all around on the back of your hand to ensure it's not too hot and doesn't have hot spots. maybe it'll help her to miss her brother a little less.  music also might help, try musicforcats . com or kusc . org   
 when they fight is there fur flying and blood shed and other major issues going on? or do they growl and hiss and bat at each other and then go about their ways? if its the latter they are just roughhousing (playing) and you need to let them do it. if they also cuddle and play it makes me think this is just a rough kitten play they are doing.   they also need to establish who is dominant cat in the house so they will have to duke it out for that also.  
 i'm sticking this in cat behavior because i think the suggestions here might have saved my hide. an indoors only cat somehow managed to sneak out the door while i was cussing and unloading stuff. he strolled out the side door into a yard like an experienced alley cat, froze, then hunkered down. my first reaction was to call him (like he's a dog), second reaction is to tip toe stealth like and make a grab (that i would probably not have won, further freaking him out) and my third reaction was to scream for help (further freaking him out.) i guess my time on tcs has taught me "if you want to help a cat, think like a cat". so i kind of ignored him, but kept a watch. he hunkered down, looking around and back at the door (5 feet away must have seemed like 500 miles), i quietly unloaded something out of my truck and, not looking directly at him, spoke in a normal tone of voice like i would if he strolled into greet me while i was sitting on the john.  "(cat name), what are you doing? you don't need to be outside. come on, man, back inside. doesn't that sound better than this?" i walked at a 45 degree angle towards him, keeping up the normal tone small talk, and quietly bent down, gently scooped him up (no man grip to keep him from rushing off) and brought him back inside.  i'm curious what others would do in this situation. there's a lot of places for a cat to rush off to here and we might not find them for awhile. i knew yelling or shouting or freaking out and flapping my arms at him would have made him bolt, but pretending nothing was wrong with my voice and without rushing around and calling 911 seemed to make him feel more relaxed. this might be a good thing to talk about in case we find ourselves in the same situation...indoors only cat meets the outdoors and has a freeze moment and could bolt if we do the wrong thing.  
 the kibble shake makes me think keeping a pop-top can of cat food in the closet (right beside this particular door) would be good. these raw fed cats still remember that pop noise of a can of food and come running as fast and as clumsily as me chasing a steak downhill.  good ammo, @karenkat!   
 try the word "dinner". that's the word that my cats prefer.   
 yes... provided you've 'trained' your cats to recognize that sound, always have a secret stash of either their favorite kibble or freeze-dried treats in a glass jar, and keep it near the door. a good rattle of the jar along with that word, "dinner!" (or a word you've trained them to recognize for treats) and you have better luck coaxing them back in.  
 the cats like it. but the dogs do a freeze and a 90 degree head tilt. hilarious.   
 if they are outside and i'm in front of them (like on the pathway to the front door) i snap my fingers  and say inside in a soft firm voice. they know the word inside and that the front door is forbidden. if they were outside and i was inside i would pretend i can't see them, shake treats and call both my cats (because if the other guy is going to get a treat, i want more treats.) if they are lost or i can't find them, i would walk around making my lost my baby cry/meow (which if you listen to kittens and your cat's is the "help me" meow.) usually i just do that meow if i can't find one of my cats in the house. it may take a few minutes but they come up to me... at which point i'm all affectionate and praising them (plus maybe treats.) they will come just from meow, no treat king needed. but yeah treat shaking is usually the fastest way.  
 have you thought about giving him a calming treat or supplement shortly before cutting his claws? our cat was fussy with this, and we found the treats we used to be very effective at taking the edge off so we could work quickly, without him getting all worked up and stressed. and when we were done lots of praise and other treats were given. after some time, he would usually let us cut his claws without having to give him the calm treat before hand, but of course, he expected, and we obliged , the treats after! lol!  the treat is called "head to tail, calming".  
 i'm not sure it would work, but i've had success with 'time-outs.' when angus misbehaves in some way, i warn him or distract him and if he goes right back to what i don't want him doing, i shut him in the bathroom for a few minutes. it sometimes takes a couple of visits to the bathroom, but he eventually understands that he needs to find something else to do.   that's something you could use regardless of which one was being the brat, although as long as there's no fur flying or blood being spilled, it might be better to give them some space to sort it out--i'm obviously not seeing what you are so that decision is best left in your hands.  
 hi! in reading through your post a couple times, i'm wondering--what if you tried a heating pad set on low with a couple of towels on it so it doesn't get too hot. you could also pick up a calming product in a spray, and lightly spray the topmost towel. i realize she's calm, but it might help to attract her to it if the warmth itself doesn't. you could even spray a couple of the other items...  
 hello and welcome to tcs. cats are very good at hiding pain, so since you have noticed something is off with her, i agree with @di and bob you should probably get her checked out at the vet. here's a tcs article that might be helpful: 35 signs that your cat may be in pain  
 hello all...its been awhile since my latest update on our aggie and allie.   it's almost 2 months since we heard them growling and hissing under a bed together. after a couple weeks separated, they've been loose in the house.  it seems about once a day they cross paths in a way that causes them to growl or hiss at each other. well, for allie to hiss and aggie. tonight, while allie playing in a reusable shopping bag...aggie decided to join in. you guessed it...allie hissed and growled at aggie. aggie made some noises back and eventually went to the cat tree. no further noise.  i suppose this is going to take some time, but it sure is frustrating....  thanks for reading!  
 sounds pretty normal. my two never got much past that. older cat would gladly ignore the younger, but if he wants to play or even lick her, she will growl at him and if he persists maybe even yowl. and its been years. she just doesn't want to be touched by another cat. but if the younger is being calm, she can lay near him.  
 once upon a bronze age we had two little 5 month old boys fostered. for about a solid week, they hid in their little room we set up for them under blankets and behind things. no hissing, no aggression, just scared. most cats are more active in the early morning (4:00am isn't a stretch) and later in the evening (9 or 10:00pm and on), and naturally sleep or "hide out" (if they're scared) by day. they wanted nothing to do with us during the day, but one night the braver of the two sniffed my outstretched hand, cheek rubbed it, then wouldn't let me alone. a few days later, these kittens were nick named "monkey brothers" because they ran everywhere, leaped onto stuff, leaped onto us, killed many boxes and toys, and caused mayhem. just the way we like it.  at 6 months, natural curiosity will more than likely take over eventually. just be available but don't force it. maybe in another few weeks you'll be back on here, posting "i can't keep this kitten out of my lap or off my face. she's into everything, knocking things over, what can we do to curb this?" like so many of us have!   
 yeah, things can go bad without a safe room, or if they escape it. although in your case you probably thought it was a perfectly good safe room!   a young girl died a few months back. her new scared kitten was behind the washing machine, and the young girl squeezed back there, and i don't know exactly what happened, but we should definitely keep recommending a safe room not be skipped for new additions.   
 puppy pads. if he likes peeing on soft things they usually do the trick. you can get a great big box of them at sam's club or amazon. absorbent underpads made for humans are larger and sometimes cheaper than those sold for puppies. this is what i buy; at the current price the pads are 21 cents each: https://www.amazon.com/gp/aw/d/b000...utf8&qid=1539707710&sr=8-7&keywords=underpads  
 if this is a 'newer' behavior, i tend to think there is a medical reason behind it, perhaps even something age related - which might be harder for a vet to pick up on initially. or, it could be due to some change in the environment that you haven't yet picked up on - especially if the cat outside that he hates has been around for a long time. i suppose it could also be a combination - aging changes that are causing him to be more affected by the outdoor cat or have altered his litterbox preferences.   if you hate confining him, perhaps the attractant litter, and/or puppy pads, might work and you won't have to. if not, you may be forced to restrict his area for a while. good luck!!  
 oh yeah, i'd forgotten about human urine...  
 this is such great news! so happy for you! maybe your cat loves fresh litter + litter attractant? i think you could keep the puppy pads as a back up; see how long this streak lasts?   
 yes i can just try to see how long he will keep up the good behavior! hopefully this wasn’t a fluke!  
 ok. she eats with my cats but my cat peaches chases her back to the bedroom after she eats. coco is done first. peaches is very protective of her food. coco's mom never hissed or growled so its in her genes. she is a lot of fun til she sees my cats. just started to get frustrated  
 firstly - wow cuteness all around. thank you for posting those pictures! :-) those kitties have it made! :-) lucky kitties!  coco is the one you are concerned with, yes?  after seeing those pictures i really have to agree with @susanm9006 and @sweetblackpaws she looks like she is doing pretty well. no need to rehome -she's at home for sure. i know how you feel though - with mia not coming out of her safe room much i sometimes too get that twinge of "maybe i'm not the best place for her. maybe she'd be happier elsewhere." because we love them and want what's best for them and worry! she's home - she just needs a little more time and such. some kitties, as we know, are slower than others... but she looks happy overall. :-)  now i'm no expert - i'm still learning the ways of the cat, but, when i look at the picture of all three of them together, she looks nervous. she wants to participate but she's seeming to lack the confidence. her tail is tucked in, back up like she's ready to take flight. maybe because peaches chases her off?  charlie chases mia off too. i sit there and go *sigh* why kitty why!  the body language really does look like she is displaying uncertainty.  you mentioned too about the playing less because she stays in your bedroom a lot. i would suggest more play to build her confidence and with peaches reaction perhaps a slow reintroduction while building up coco's confidence would help the situation.  
 you've got cat trees, up high places, toys, activities galore and i'm only a little jealous. your cats are obviously taken care of past the point of most expectations. i think you're doing fine, honestly. a few of our girls are the same way. they tolerate one another but aren't best buds or anything, and everyone seems cool with this. i wouldn't consider re homing yet! my two top girls, queen bee and baby girl don't love one another. but they let the other have some oxygen. if they cross paths, there's a bit of hissing, slapping and annoyed noises from both but there has never been bloodshed or a hair out of place. i honestly think these two just like to bitch.  if she hisses at the others, how do they react? do they gang up on her, or just walk off like "whatever" and ignore her?  as stupid as this sounds, if they all like chase/kill games with something like a wand or a feather on a stick, this has helped us a lot in creating a cooperative kill mode. we let them chase the thing, attack the thing, corner the thing, and learn to work as their own little pack or tribe or whatever. (initially there was some complaining, but it didn't last.) we'd play this game, end it with them wanting more, then feed them in the same room.  they'll never be best buds, but there's no real fighting...just complaining sometimes! (we ignore it, or don't react. if they want to bicker, fine. since there's never been any serious posturing, screaming, fighting or puncture wounds, we're good.)  
 it would help if coco stood up for herself. does not hiss,growl,or stand on her haunches i explained to my vet what my cat peaches is like. he said oh, she's a bitch!. after eating she chases coco back in my bedroom. maggie would play with coco but every time she tries, coco runs away. because she remembers maggie once being aggressive to her. i have 6 wand toys  
 yeah, some are timid that way, and some will always be dominated. but it doesn't mean they can't live harmoniously in time. what's going on with maggie's crystals?  
 vet thinks it's from stress but to keep an eye on it. very small amoun  
 sounds like peaches needs a few time outs.   
 well and i did kind of say that stuff to him last night. at first after he mentioned the poop i said "so you probably think it's our cats, huh?" and he nodded yes. i thought to myself "wow you are assuming a lot "! i kind of got the feeling they weren't going to be happy with our cats when i first introduced myself to the wife shortly after they moved in and she said "i see you guys have cats. i don't know how many you have". after that she seemed a little miffed that we didn't have any kids, but they were trying for one and kept saying "it's totally fine that you don't have or want kids". ooookay! thanks for letting me know that! i also told him that if i see them go over there that i will call them back or i could come over and pick up poop in their yard if they find it, but he didn't seem too big on me coming into their yard to do that...and i might be picking up poop from another person's cat anyways!! we have the neighbor cats in our yard all the time. i think they come to hang out with our cats but when they see us, they run away.  
 ok. aside from the indoor/outdoor thing, --although a catio in your own backyard could be the answer.  are you free feeding? a little kibble inbetween canned meals can work.  do you play with them?  there are a lot of good articles in the tcs library. i've listed a few of them below. they aren't lengthy and are packed with good info;  cat enclosures  harness and leash training for cats  cat grass: how to create the purrfect garden for your cat  playing with your cat: 10 things you need to know  how to set healthy boundaries for your cat  the dos and don'ts of cat behavior modification  clicker training for cats  how and why do cats play?  8 superb automated cat toys that you're going to love!  how to make your home bigger (at least for your cats)  15 awesome cat caves that are practical, beautiful and fun  how to build a diy cat cave from cardboard  how to keep your cat safe outdoors  
 yep, it's weird. oliver has managed to get out on two occasions much to my horror and yes, he was found both times scared to death under a bush. the instinct to explore seems strong so they'll try despite the consequences. i don't know the answer except for further diligence but it's hard if you have an active household.   
  now i am wondering if i should just take away access to the outside altogether. he came in through the window of his catio and he was covered in dirt. i went out to see what he was doing and he was trying to dig out under the fencing. this is the first time he has tried to do this so i am wondering now if i should just not allow him access at all. it seems like the catio is no longer good enough for him. i am starting to worry that he is going to end up hurting himself.   everyone raves about catios so i thought it would be a good idea to build him one but now that he is older it seems like he is just going bezerk wanting to get out, but when he does he panics, so it is a weird cycle.   
 cats pant when its very hot as part of their package of heat-shedding strategies.   do cats sweat or pant when they overheat?   
 could he have seen an animal, prey, another cat, from the catio that he is trying to get to?  
 since you had trouble with him breaking through the window screen you might try heavier screening. i don't know the gauges of screening, but your local hardware store will. yes, it'll cost but less than the vet for repairs and the horror of losing him.   we had second story windows and cats who wanted to hang out on the roof. they were supposed to look out the windows not stress me out of my mind. we used small opening heavy gauge chicken wire which was more like tiny elizabeth metal diamond panels for windows. it was too small to get a paw through, but open enough for the breeze and scents to come through.   for your cat's peace of mind it was open enough to yell at other cats, squirrels, and birds. they figured this out and would wait until birds landed on the roof, then leap up and scream at them. this terrifying the birds (who did not die form it) seemed to satisfy some of the hunting urge.  note this weight screening can be climbed by a cat without it tearing. you will need to keep the tight light screening on the side away from the cats to prevent mosquitoes and the like from getting in.  
 oh trust me, i know whoever it ends up being that it’s a multi week process!!  
 hi! maybe these will help, plus try some music for your half-meezer do cats get jealous? (and what to do about it when they do)  how to successfully introduce cats: the ultimate guide  how to introduce a kitten to an older cat  
 yes, it is probably too soon to expect your resident cat to be happy. keep them separated until the older seems calmer and then introduce them slowly. they will likely be best friends soon.  
 um, i could put it somewhere else perhaps... like i say, house is really small, so there’s no room in my bedroom, but i’ll try to think where i could move his stuff.... perhaps a nook off the living area or closet... i just hate seeing milton (resident kitty) on edge like this when he’s normally just so sweet and chill! i’ll try some rearranging ....  
 my cat smo was forced to live fully outdoors for the past couple months - she was formerly my landlord's but now officially belongs to me. before that i had her for about half a year and she was always a fairly active cat. in the daytime she insisted on going outdoors (my landlord left her outdoors from sunrise to sunset for 3 years), and often seemed restless at night. she's around 5 years old so she still had a good amount of energy.  we got smo home last monday, and she's been confined to my bedroom - she used to sleep in this room with me every day so it's very familiar to her. for the first several days after she got back, she pretty much did nothing but wolf down food and sleep. we're almost going on a week now, and while she has more energy than before she spends the majority of her time napping. she doesn't scratch incessantly at the front door to be let out, and doesn't insist on going into the foyer where she used to play often. she'll still do these things a few times a day, but loses interest quickly.   for what it's worth, she still plays energetically when she's awake and her eliminations look normal (albeit a bit soft and very stinky, which wasn't the case before). i plan on taking her to the vet of course, but wanted to hold off on this until she got acclimated to being home. she escaped the bedroom a couple days ago (she got into another bedroom and the foyer), and this made her nervous enough to poop on the bed, so i want to move slowly.   could she just be decompressing from her ordeal? she's really been through so much the past 2 months - she went from being a very pampered kitty to a stray cat. i'm hoping this is all it is, since she seems very much like herself...just a lot sleepier.  
 hello and welcome to tcs. what does juneau do if you let her in the bedroom at night? will she not sleep at all?  tcs has an article called how to stop my cat from waking me up at night (step-by-step plan) that might be helpful.  
 i can't think of anything to suggest. hopefully some other members will reply with ideas.  tcs does have a couple articles, which might be helpful.  solving cat behavior problems: the key ingredient the dos and don'ts of cat behavior modification  
 cats are adept at figuring out what works. so if scratching gets attention, he is going to keep on doing it. and if screaming, scratching and throwing itself at a closed bedroom door results in the door being opened, the cat isn’t going to quiet down. so, it is a choice that you ultimately have to make whether to keep being disturbed or to shut the cats out and wait the days or weeks it might take to get to give up instead of making noise at the door. if you give in even once, it will reinforce that pitching a fit might work and you are back to day one.   you can try a warning before shutting the cats out, like “quiet!” or “stop that” that you repeat every time the cat scratches in your room. if it doesn’t quiet him then shut both out for the night. if you repeat this night after night, they may learn what the warning word means and actually stop but again this takes many repetitions and loss of sleep to train them.  
 hi! she sounds like a sweetheart!  i would continue with the sock (that was a clean one?), and also use a worn unwashed t-shirt of yours and of other family members so that your scents are all mixed in with the new cat's smell.  this may have some other thoughts for you;  how to successfully introduce cats: the ultimate guide  
 ignoring the socks is a good think, i think, as opposed to hissing and growling at it. curiosity about each other where there's only a bit of hissing is good as well. a room exchange should be right on the money - good on you!  
 see my new post.   
 i would say yes, kittens do remember their mother’s by scent. perhaps not forever but at least for some months. likewise moms remember their kittens for a while.  
 yes, a young male, less than 6 months would be the best, females love to boss them around. two females are usually too territorial and bossy around each other. two males are the best. in my opinion two males and a female make the perfect family, the males can be buddies and playmates, teh female watches over them and keeps them in line!  it is a long process to introduce two cats to each other, it takes more often than not many months. the younger the newcomer, the better, but kittens also want to play and will approach the polder cat before they are ready. you must keep them separated for a period of time and swap sleeping blankets, etc. if you decide on a kitten, we are here to lend help and support any time you need it. two cats are really no more trouble or expensive to keep then one. make sure you bring both to vet visits so the smells that they get while there don't make them strangers to the cat left at home.  female cats are naturally loners too, they are the manners teachers and relish the role. they act like they don't like newcomers but inside like the chance to have something to do, and have something interesting to watch. your cat chases away strangers in her yard because she is territorial. she will be the same with a kitten until she accepts them as a member of the family, and since cats hate change it will take a while! all the luck and keep us posted!  
 awwww... what a sweetie pie.  it's so hard to know if a cat is lonely, bored, etc. if only they could talk.   
 hi, i'm opening this thread not really for answers but for reassurement i guess.......  my cat is 6 months old and i've had him for 4 months now, we reached a point were i really thought our relationship was perfect... until i went on a trip for 6 days and left him at my friend's house.  before the trip he would follow me around everywhere, i live in a 2 floor house, and if i went down or upstairs he would always come with me even if he was napping he would get up and come; although he is also a very indipendent guy. he would always come to me if i called him and if i spent a lot of time on the computer or doing other stuff he would nap next to me or go around the house and come check on me from time to time. in the morning he is usually super cuddly and more playful at night, he doesn't always like to be cuddled but if i get down he would always come and rub around me and get petted a bit. he also didn't mind being kissed, if i got close to him with my face he would also get close and let me kiss him.  i don't know, but since we came back home (it's been 2 days), he's been acting very cold, he would follow me sometimes but always kept a bit of distance, and when i try to pet him he would just move away. he also started to nap in some new places and would ignore me for hours long... doesn't respond to my calls anymore and just avoids me whenever he can. sometimes there are a few moments when he seems back to normal but then he starts again acting all weird. he has always been a very friendly cat and usually doesn't act like this to strangers either, so it's the first time seeing him like this.   i know i just have to be patient and that it has been hard for him to change environment like this, but it just breaks my heart everytime.... i'm just afraid it would never get back as before...   has this ever happened to you? how did it end?  
 i think he was making you pay for leaving him! i work at an animal shelter that also boards pets, and you'd be surprised at the number of cats that either give their owners the cold shoulder or even attack them when they come to pick them up. one cat is so bad that her owner calls us from the parking lot so we can get the cat in her carrier before she sees mom.  many hiss or scratch when the owners try to "box them up", but will let the shelter staff do it with nary a grumble. usually things are back to normal at home within a day or two.  
 i have a couple of outside/barn/community cats and kittens that i got tamed. we have a dog door going into our garage. we no longer have a dog. winter is coming and we keep heat in the garage. i would like to get the cats and kitties to use the dog door into the garage to keep warm. teaching the dog was easy but i'm not sure how to go about it with the cats and kitties. any ideas?  
 can you initially keep the flap open? once the cats figure out it is a “door” then you can have someone on one side and someone on the other with treats, food, whatever attracts them. mine figured it all pretty quickly when they were motivated  
 i don't think it's to high. i found this pic of the cat door where i once worked. i would take my cat to work with me. we had 4 cats over the time i worked there. to were strays that were just dumped off. 1 i found on the side of the road and the one pictured was a thoroughbred maine coon. he was probably 4 to 6 months in this pic. none of them had trouble navigating the door. once you get one of them through the door, it will probably be monkey see monkey do sort of thing. if they are scared of being indoors it may be easier to bring them in and feed them and lure them out. don't know the situation fully. i do fully agree with using food as the motivator. even as tama pictured grew to 25 lbs he could still get through that little door though, it was comical to watch!    
 hi everyone.  i have a 6 year old cat named baby cat. he's never really been that affection towards anyone other than me, and he was a stray so he actually gets along well with other cats.  two days ago, i got a new kitten named diana. diana was in a safe room, but she was small enough to fit under the tiny crack in my door and get out so she and baby cat met face to face within an hour of her getting there.   baby cat only ever smacked her head with his paw (no claws) three times which were in a row and that happened yesterday so the first day he didn't even care.   he hasn't hissed, growled or tried to swipe at her again despite her bugging him. (diana had already lived with an adult male cat so she automatically assumed baby cat would love her) he won't stop staring at her though. he will stare from his chair but he never jumps down to get at her. his tail swooshes but not quickly. it's hard for me to tell when he's going to be aggressive because he has two broken ears, they don't stand up anymore so i can't look at his ears as a sign of aggression. i've been trying to keep them apart but diana constantly escapes her safe room. baby cat has a lot of escape routes. his chair, the couch, and the dryer and he doesn't seem bothered by the kitten, more so annoyed by her presence.   i've included photos of baby cat so you can see what i mean by broken ears. one got broken in a fight and the other broke from what the vet assumes was an infection, which happened before i got him.  
 thanks you for taking the time to read this. i have a two year old raggdoll named charlie. he is a very energetic playful cat and he loves to be around his people. i thought it would be in his best interest to get a kitten to keep him company and play with him. a week ago today i picked up my baby girl. she is 10 weeks old and very small. especially compared to my big 20 lb raggie. i have her set up in a safe room with all her resources. i let her settle in for a couple days and she is doing just fine. about four days since her arrival i let charlie look at her through the cracked door. he didn't show any sighns of aggression, no hissing growling or flat ears. he just seems eager to play with her and curious. so i let him into her room. she seemed very scared of him, arched her back and puffed her tail, she hissed at him. he rolled her around on the floor for a bit, i got scared and i separated them again. now i'm really scared to let them meet again. i really appreciate any insight in this matter, and tips for introducing them. as of now i'm doing more scent swapping exercises. and charlie sits outside her door meowing to get in.  
 have you read the threads on introducing cats?  i just went through this--from february 6th until now.  i was introducing an older (12 yrs) male cat to a newcomer that was a freshly neutered 2 year old male.  i got through it by diligently following the practices in this article, and just reading my older cat's body language.  if i can do it you can do it!  here is the article, and a link to my threads if you want to read our integration journey.  they just take time, and the majority of it, in my opinion--or at least it was so in my house--is that it is dependent on the resident cat's personality and willingness to accept.  you have a bit of a different situation, with a teeny tiny one meeting a big boy, but the premises are still the same.  my favorite article (and there are youtube videos from jackson galaxy that follow the same guide if you want to watch them too):  http://www.thecatsite.com/a/how-to-successfully-introduce-cats-the-ultimate-guide  my threads with our journey:  http://www.thecatsite.com/t/314186/need-advice-is-my-cat-just-evil-embodied-or-am-i-overreacting  http://www.thecatsite.com/t/325599/7-months-in-update-on-introducing-two-cats  please keep us updated.  i had to modify many steps in the guide, and my time frame extended far longer than i ever would have imagined, but it worked. i needed a lot of patience, but it all worked out.    
 @losna   can you share the thread you shared with me, the simplified guide to introducing cats?  
 i do think it's going well, but no, you aren't being paranoid--you know your cat better than anybody else---trust your instincts more than anything.  you know your cat and his body language and expressions.  i could read my older cat very, very well, and i know that look you are describing.  his pupils would dilate, he would get this different stance while looking at shortstack, i just knew when he was about to go on the attack.  the bad thing was this--wurp would fool us.  he would sit and purr looking at stack through the gate, actually rub the gate purring and shortstack touching his nose through the gate, then if we let him out he would all out attack.  wurp lived his first 7 years outdoors and he would actually kill intruding cats, and i always kept this in the back of my mind.  and he was neutered at 1 year old--he was just that territorial.  i knew better than to trust his purring and sweetie face.  he lies lol!!  we had the lattice-type baby gates, and we tried stacking two on top of each other.  i mean wurp is 12, and had shown no interest in climbing them at all.  we kept noticing him just sitting at the two-gate barrier, just studying it.  watching shortstack, purring, never making any attempt.  then one day he scaled the two gates like a pro--almost if he had planned out where to put his feet in advance, and bailed off the top of the 2nd gate directly on top of shortstack.  there was blood and fur shed, and shortstack holed up in our fireplace behind the fake logs and peed all over the place, just terrified.  it was like he had studied the gates, planned his attack, and prepared lol   he is a mean, mean old guy.  that was when we went to 3 gates stacked one on top of the other.  i do not think you will have the troubles i had.  i think your guy may genuinely be curious and may even want to play.  but trust your gut--like i said, you know your cat above anything else.  read the body language and just keep the introduction slow.  a kitten may definitely feel threatened, and a fear response could produce a "prey" stalking or attack in your older cat.  i know that part of wurp's drive to attack shortstack was based on the fact that stack would run from him.  shortstack stood up for himself one time--and that greatly changed the relationship dynamics.  trust your gut!   
 update. i've been opening the door regularly now. he doesn't attemp to jump the baby gate. the baby has gotten a bit more confident and goes up to meet charlie. at times he seems very chill, and at other times he is batting at her through the gate. it's still hard for me to tell weather it's aggressive or playfull.  
 they had a face to face encounter today, my husband and i both played with each cat separately while they were in the same room. they ignored each other for about 10 minutes, playing with their own toys. when we put the toys down he went in and tackled her, he bit her and she screamed. i freaked out so we separated them. even though it looked a little vicious to me she didn't look hurt at all after the incident, and she aproached him again shortly after. i would love to hear another persons take on this. i'm sorry if i'm being annoying with all my replies. this is he only place i can talk to people who care as much about cats as i do. thanks x  
 i agree with the above poster.  i can tell you that watching what seems to be aggression by the older cat toward a defenseless kitten is very distressing.  i went through months of anxiety about this.  however, if she comes back and he does not seem to be trying to kill her (fur flying and extreme screeching and howling) it is just an adjustment phase.  there are boundaries to be made and a structure to develop.  watch them and separate them if necessary, but give it some time and try to have patience.  continue to post and ask others - that's good.  it will more than likely turn out ok.  i know it is hard on you.  
 thank you for the support. before the tackle and biting started they were each playing with their own toys. when we put the toys down, charlie aproched her slowly, there was no growling or hissing, he went in for a sniff and then started the tackle and biting. she rolled over on her back, he was biting her belly and neck, maybe even her throat. it happened very quickly. her screams sounded like she was in pain. but like i said i didn't see a scratch on her after. and she was immediately back to her sassy self, even approaching charlie again (this time through the baby gate we have set up between rooms).   up until now i haven't heard a single hiss or growl from him. she hissed at him the first couple of times they saw each other, but i feel like that was out of fear, and she has since become a very brave little kitten.   the thing that scares me is just the fact that if he wanted to he could seriously harm her, just because of the size difference in them. and those kitten screams will haunt my dreams lol.   again thank you to everyone who has replied, i really appreciate it.  
 @charlies mom   they are both so beautiful!  i completely agree with @catlover73     our altercations were true altercations with screeches and yowls before the attack......yours does sound like either he is trying to teach boundaries and "cat manners", or maybe he got a bit overstimulated with the play and redirected.  i had to be careful with play when we started our first face-to-face sessions.  it really seemed to overstimulate my older cat, which led to him attacking the younger.  we finally stopped the playtimes, and started doing treats and brushing at their "together" times, or gentle petting sessions and treats.  we still make a point to have playtimes separately with each one, while one is asleep somewhere else in the house we play with the other.  it gets a bit too close for comfort if they both get wound up at the same time.  
 i'm so happy to hear that too. thanks for all the advice you gave me.   
    
 it is great to see your babies hanging out together. they both look happy and comfortable.  
 i'm loving it!  i love to see fur buddies!!  
 hi charlies mom, i have a 12 year old kitty (gypsy) and about 5 weeks ago got a 6 week old kitten (lucy). lucy has her own room and i made a large screen to put up in the doorway to separate her from gypsy. i started slow, exchanged scents, did the room swap etc. gypsy never hissed at lucy's scent and so i eventually started leaving the door open with just the screen separating them....... but once gypsy saw lucy and she knew it was another kitty she hissed, growled, lunged at the screen etc. and there was one day lucy got out of the room while i was trying to get in and she ran into the kitchen where gypsy was on the table and gypsy leaped for her and started chasing her while hissing/growling. lucy got behind the sofa and i was able to catch gypsy before she caught lucy or hurt her and lock her in kitchen until i could get lucy out and get her in her safe room. anyways, the growling/hissing/lunging is not getting any better. gypsy will sometimes lay in the hallway about 3 feet from the screen watching lucy, growling every 20 seconds or so....... i'm really afraid to let them be in same room together. thankfully gypsy has no teeth as all were removed last year and she just had her nails trimmed so my vet said that this would be a good time to see what happens and to put them together, that they will never get used to each other if they can't be together, etc..... i'm so scared to do that though since gypsy even scares me when she hisses/growls. ugh, don't know how to get past this. i've read all the suggestions so just wondering how you ended up having success charlies mom?   
 i've tried everything and i'm all out of ideas and at the end of my rope. my so and i have 3 female indoor cats, 2 from the same litter and 1 born in a barn. the two from the same litter are 5 years old and the one from the barn is 4. the process to introduce them to each other took about a month. now the youngest one is the dominate one and the other 2 are...not. i bring this up because i'm not sure if it's relevant and i know that my cats can accept and learn to love new additions. oh also all 3 cats are crazy petite, they are all litter runts. my so and i have gotten a puppy, a german sheppard. he thinks he is king shit, he loves all animals, when we see other animals when we are walking or anything he runs up to them and is immediately best friends! he's the big boy from his litter, and he's pretty cocky. the puppy also came from a house where there where 2 adult cats, the adult cats where used to dogs and would ignore them, in turn the dogs would ignore the cats, if the dogs decided to play with the cats then the cat did a no claw swipe and the dogs would leave. so the dog knows how to act with cats.  my so and i wanted to make sure that the cats and dog got along so before anything else we looked up how to introduce older cats to puppies, adult cats to puppies, multiple cats to a dog, and everything. we did everything, the dog got a crate, the cats got a crate, we kept them separated, so they could hear each other, fed them on opposite sides of the same door, traded each others blankets (toys once but the puppy destroyed the cat's toy so trading toys was scrapped), cuddled and treated the cats a lot, at night we let the cats roam and see the dog while he was asleep in his crate. then we let them meet when everyone seemed better. we got a ton of treats for both, put the dog on a leash and the cats lose but in the same room with the door cracked, and all the cats bailed. they didn't even try to meet the dog. this happened every time we tried to get them to meet. so after about 7-10 attempts (different days so the cats could calm down) we did it in the bedroom where the cats can hide under the bed and behind the bed skirt and the dog couldn't follow. the cats constantly hissed and backed away from the dog, they got treats for not hissing and the dog got treats for being calm. after a few interactions like this we tried again where the cat could escape. the cats would immediately bail. we tried more hiding place meets, crate and leach meets, everything. the cats wont even try. they have their own private space, i rebuilt the area under the stairs to be a cat only safe place, they have perches to be safe, they still get cuddles like mad. it's 7 months since we got the puppy, he's much bigger and he desperately wants to be friends with the cats, he won't chase them, he gives them space, when we tries to walk up to them he moves very slowly and if the cat backs away he stops moving for a few minutes and then tries again. he's doing everything correct and still the cats don't even deal with him. the youngest cats has started watching him from a high perch which i think i progress but another has taken to exclusively going to the bathroom on our cloths. if we ever try meets the cats just hiss and swipe if they can't bail. even when he gets swiped he flinches, ignores the blood and don't move a muscle or make a sound. the whole time the cats never stopped eating and never stopped cuddling. they don't seem to blame us at all for the dog being here. he has never chased them or even been the littlest bit threatening to them.   i don't know what to do anymore especially because one cat is starting to act worse and it pains me to see no progress what so ever. please for the love of god someone tell me what to do. my so is getting frustrated and wants to lock the cats up in the safe place i made for them with food, litter, and the cat post for a few days but it just seems like prison to me. i don't know what to do and it's getting hard to watch ad keep going and i don't even know how to give up. i feel trapped  
 hello and welcome to tcs. so sorry you and your family are dealing with the stress introducing your cats to the puppy.  i've never had more than 1 cat at a time, or had a dog at all, so i have no experience to draw on to offer suggestions.  tcs does have a few articles on cats and dogs, that might be helpful. i do wonder if your so is right, though, and that separating the cats from the dog, and doing a re-introduction might be a good idea.  hopefully other members, with cat and dog families, will reply with advice/suggestions.  here's the links to the articles: best and worst dog breeds to live with cats caring for cats and dogs introducing cats to dogs how to safely introduce a cat and a dog  also a couple on litter box issues: how to solve litterbox problems in cats: the ultimate guide litterbox problems? here's why you should call your vet inappropriate peeing, spraying, toy obsession and leg and hand nipping spraying: when your cat uses urine to mark territory  combat cat urine how to get cat pee smell out of clothes and linens  
 @jazort : hello and welcome to tcs. how is the kitten doing now?  
 is he getting enough canned food?  
 thanks everyone! there hasn't been any accidents anywhere else. we have shut the door so he cant's get in. sad, but needs to happen. i don't think it's a uti, but still going to the vet just to be sure. i will keep you all updated   
 lol, i think you're doing a fantastic job of keeping them on track for a wonderful relationship   
 just watched second video, them playing. again albus is being very respectful and gentle, trixie not so much. it was all play but albus was a little nervous about trixie’s bravado. i definitely would not have stopped it or even called out to albus. if they continued playing i would expect there to be a hiss or a smack from albus to trixie as he gets more comfortable telling her to back off and mind her manners some. he could also hold her down and you would hear her screaming or hissing like she was being tortured. it is just part of establishing their relationship and boundaries. i would not interfere unless it is many times rougher and fur is literally flying.  
 we got nervous the first time which is why we stopped it shortly after. we let them out together again today and the same thing happened. they started going at it again almost right away. this time albus layed about 5 feet away for about 2 minutes at some point while trixie was playing with my husband and then she proceeded to attack him again. after about 15 minutes we fed them to see if they would stop to feed and they did. they switched foods twice while feeding. right after, they started chasing each other and albus pinned trixie to the ground a few times and we did hear her scream a bit and hiss a few times. she also growled at him when he got near her after that and he backed off calmly.  we do worry that he might hurt her since he’s about 3x bigger than her in both size and weight.   
 a few days ago we got a 2 month old kitten from the shelter who is very sweet and outgoing.my 2 year old cat hates her she hisses and hits and has never done that before she is a very outgoing cat too who loves people she has also been really sad. she won't come up to me or look at me and is always hiding under my bed (which she's never done before) what do i do? do i need to get rid of the kitten? my cat even hisses at the smell of the kitten even though my dog loves the kitten now. my cat even hissed at my do who is her best friend! please help  
 hi! let me give you some things to try that hopefully will help both your kitties--these articles aren't long to read and have a lot of good info:  do cats get jealous? (and what to do about it when they do)  how to fix an unsuccessful cat introduction  how to introduce a kitten to an older cat  how to successfully introduce cats: the ultimate guide  how to make your home bigger (at least for your cats)  how to help a new cat adjust to your home  the multi-cat household  
 hi again! like @sweetblackpaws has said, swapping toys, scratchers and blankets or towels the animals all sleep on.  you'll need to let your resident cat have the house, and you need to contain your kitten. your resident cat is feeling like she's lost her territory to the new cat and she doesn't like it. go more slowly, pay attention to what you read in the articles about feeding on either side of a door - with the kitten on the inside, then using stacked baby gates to feed them on either side of - still with the kitten on the inside, etc.  also you need to restrain your dog to keep it from reacting to the stress.  try the music, right now all your animals are stressed.  i know that was a lot of drama, but that's all that it was. stop worrying, and start working with your resident cat - she needs you.  
 my cat just threw up three times! she's never thrown up or been sick before. is she ok?  
 hi! ok, that's good that she's been to the vet, good for you! you're not being annoying, this is a challenging situation.  give her a 50:50 unseasoned boiled cut up white meat chicken and white rice for a couple of meals, that should help settle her tummy.  for now keep the kitten away from your resident cat, in a room with a door you can close. let your resident cat have the rest of the house.  keep playing the music, keep loving on your resident kitty, don't let the kitten out. this may take several days. don't start with the eating on either side of the doors yet either until your resident kitty's stomach is settled and she's been eating for a couple of days normally, at least. she needs time to come back to herself.  hang in there!!  
 you should really consider doing a more controlled introduction like the articles say. we went through the same thing - hissing, vomit, hiding, resident cat looking sad etc. we felt awful after the first week thinking we made a mistake and wondered if we would have to find a new home for the cat because we were ruining our resident cat's life. i'm sure it's traumatic for you and the cat, but it's been two weeks and our two kitties are awesome friends. we kept them separate and did scent swapping etc until they were both playful through a small crack in the door, then we slowly allowed them to be in the same room. i hear that if you rush them together it could ruin their chance at being friends  
 hissing and swatting and growling even are perfectly normal and expected. that kitten is going to annoy the crap out of your resident cat at some point and resident cat will have to tell her to behave. this is how she communicates. don't scold and don't intervene. let her put the kitten in its place when she feels the need. this is how the kitten will learn its boundaries and how to behave.  plus a 2 month old kitten was separated from her mother too soon and didn't learn all the proper kitty etiquette. so be patient with them. i think you may have went a little quick with the introduction but they seem to be improving slowly.  
 hi! with the not eating possibility and the unusual hiding situation, in my opinion i would take her in to the vet, just to make sure about what is going on.  to help both you and the vet to know for certain, can you put some food out specifically for her in a place where only she would be eating it?  also, can you try some music - there's an app called relax my cat, and also there's kusc.org and musicforcats.com. music can make quite a difference in helping cats to be more calm.  
 i was able to lure her out with treats, luckily. she ate them willingly enough and let me pick her up. i have her some love, but she saw my little guy and growled. i gave her some cuddles and even got her to purr a bit. after about half an hour she wanted to go as my kitten had walked by a few times and she growled again. so i put her on her favourite perch and gave her some treats, and so far she’s stayed in the room but hasn’t moved. right now my kitten is on me, cat napping. i’m hoping if she stays in the room while it’s calm it can help?   
 i am keeping you all in my thoughts -    
 so update already  i noticed when she was trying to get away from my kitten that she’s limping on her back leg. i took a look and couldn’t find any obvious injury. i called the vet back to see if i could possibly bump the appointment to today, however after talking me through checking her for a few things, they say it doesn’t sound like she’s critical, just uncomfortable, but if she gets worse to take her to the animal hospital.  i’ve made her comfortable and am keeping an eye on her. i’m going to take an extended lunch tomorrow and come home to meet the vet.  hopefully nothing serious. trying to stay calm but feeling a lot of anxiety  
 have you tried (constantly) redirecting her towards grooming something else whenever you see her going after her brother's ears and face? like a sturdy toy with feathers on it, or faux hair on the toy that is securely attached (so that she cannot swallow much of it)?  my cat overgroomed her front forearm for months after a surgery (this forearm was where the vet staff inserted needles for anesthetics and supportive care, so they had to shave that part of her arm).  what we did was get a big supply of catnip toys which also had feathers on them. she really happens to like grooming and licking feather toys, so we lucked out -- but it took persistently putting a feather toy "into her hands" and having her move from self-grooming to licking that feather toy. maybe if you can do something similar with your kitty (put a 'grooming' toy into her arms whenever she is basically over-grooming her brother), it could really help to distract her and give his wounds some important time to heal.  it could be very important for the brother's health for you to do what you can to get her to stop overgrooming him. i also suggest asking your vet about advice.  postscript- i wouldn't recommend putting bitter apple spray on a cat's wounds.  
 is there blood? is there fur flying? if the answer is no, and the kittens are under 6 months, it is probably just playing.  i know it seems excessive to you but play is cat training for fighting and hunting. it can seem overly aggressive to the outsider. especially two kittens who haven't been together before and may have different definitions of too far. they will learn how to regulate the play given time. if they are younger kittens they will likely go until they both fall asleep, wake up, eat and repeat. my boy as a kitten was either moving, eating or sleeping. there wasn't a transition between just dropping asleep and running full tilt.  here is a video of my two playing if it helps any.  and here are two kitten videos of my boy just going non-stop, this was all the time.        oh and my girl,    i swear kittens are boundless balls of energy and exploration.   
 everytime i try to post a video it says it's too big even if it's only a few seconds   
 can you extract some pics out of the videos? if not, can you take a whole lot of pics back to back, and then post the ones that depict the situation the best?  maybe someone else who is a little more tech savvy can explain how to get the videos on here. it might just be your phone too, especially if it is a little older.  
 at that age mine would throw each other on the floor. at first the thuds were a little disconcerting, but since they kept at it and their cat mom was there and okay with it we got used to it. everyone was fine.  
 thank you so much - i honestly teared up reading this! i really love this cat and want her to thrive and be the happiest floof she can be.  here's a picture of her from last night when she came out and sat with me for a while again.     
 awww... she's beautiful.  she may never be a cuddly lap cat, but then she may surprise you.   here's a couple more articles that might have some tips: 25 signs that your cat loves you your cat probably hates it when you...  
 these are fantastic suggestions! there's obviously a ton of stuff i haven't tried and some of it is super easy like a tiny bit of cheese and the tea. thank you!!!   
 hi there! i do have a skittish cat who took a long time to adjust. i posted about her in a previous thread here: new cat mom with fearful cat questions!  i'm not sure if my experiences helping my cat adjust to life with moi will help you or not. your cat sounds more extreme than mine (mine never hissed, only hid). i do feel though that the trick to helping a skittish cat adjust is to make them feel safe, and to make life with you as understandable and predictable as possible. a lot of the stuff you are already doing looks great.  here is my take on some of these things:  -rescue remedy: i'm skeptical of essential oils. i know some people feel strongly about calming scents, but i've never noticed any changes in my own cats in response to them. plus burning oils gives me a headache. if i were going to go the scent route i would probably just get a scented plant like cat grass or cat nip for environmental enrichment.  -strict meal times: routine is good for skittish cats, and if she gets excited for a meal that you personally feed her she will associate you with good things. i do a mix. i leave dry out at all times for free feeding, and give my cats wet food twice a day at predictable times.   -anxiety drugs: for me, jury's out on this one. i would normally consider anxiety drugs if she had some kind of complicating illness that would benefit from them or extreme behaviour that made her impossible to live with, like cystitis or she's attacking you. right now she's so new to you that i would give her more time before making up your mind (like 6 months).   good luck with your cute cat! she's really pretty    
  .  
 oh yes, she is eating cat food now! i transitioned her to the new dry food (wellness core chicken & turkey) but i've been adding about 10g of chicken with breakfast and dinner because she seems to like it and i'd feel guilty to pull it really fast. yes, i am a huuuuge sucker lol.  so what i've been doing is feeding her twice a day (15-20g of dry food, 10g of chicken, morning or evening) and leaving about 10-15g of chicken in her bowl in case she gets hungry between meals.   
     apparatchic said: ↑  which is a lot closer than i'd have gotten a month ago without her fleeing!click to expand...     
 she's stuck with me for life now!!!    
 hey! i just read your thread. you are really off to a very good start. this kitty was already rejected once by being returned. that is something i have found is a big set back for them but time will bring kitty back to trusting.  i am short on time right this minute but wanted to respond to you right away. you are getting great advice here. i would not resort to medication if st all possible. if a vet visit is needed, then maybe but let’s try other things first.  you can do this. i would write out all this info for you but for now i am going to quote a post that i’m life’s s video that pretty much covers the process it took me years of practice to learn. another person @shadowsrescue had posted it and i think it rocks! the methods we use are basically identical. the video too. i hope it copies through on the quote. if not then hopefully tagging them will get you the info. i encourage you to use these methods! they work for cats and kittens.  thank you @rubysmama for the heads up and kind words. maybe this will help.  please let me know how things go. hang in there. that is s beautiful cat and you are doing a fantastic thing by rescuing this kitty. i am putting your thread in my watch!    go to the video link at the bottom of the quote and click to watch. great stuff!      
 i can't wait to be able to say that i earned this sweet girl's trust.  she is currently sitting in the living room grooming herself quite vigorously   
 thank you so so much @etarre - it's great to know that you've had good experiences with your shy cats! i agree, the breakthroughs feel great - rosa didn't flee to her window when i got home tonight and stayed in her cat tree and then in the living room until she wanted to go nap on the bed, and it feels so good to know she's feeling more comfy, especially after i alarmed her (and me lol) so much trying to touch her on sunday! juniper sounds adorable and i'm so so glad she's come so far.  @duncanmac thank you, it is so good to know that these are positive signs - as a first-time cat mom, adopting rosa has been a bit overwhelming because i don't have a sense of what progress will look like with a super-shy cat. i've just been letting her sit on the arm of the couch and not looking at her too much or talking to her too much so that she feels like it's safe - hopefully one day she'll realize how comfy it would be to actually nap on the couch next to me!   i was so worried we'd lost all our progress last week, but she's doing great this week and i'm super proud of her! i'm also going to keep a closer eye on the feliway diffuser levels because it seems to make a huge difference in how comfy she feels. (which actually is great to know, because i had it pre-emptively when she got here and wasn't sure it helped!) tonight she let me put treats on the bed for her and didn't hiss at all!!! not even one teeny little hiss! since she was on the bed when i tried to touch her, i'm so glad she's letting me give it some more positive memories.     
 personally, i would be talking to her a lot so that she gets used to your voice. use your normal voice or maybe a little sing-song-ish like your talking to a baby. this way she won't jump or startle when you do talk.  pick a phrase to praise her with - "good girl" works - and use it every time she does something you like, even if it is just not running away when you shift on the couch. i use "good boy" as "yes" "it's okay" and "good boy" about a thousand times a day to encourage good behaviour.   next time she is on the arm of the couch - put a pile of treats between her and you and then kind of ignore her. if she goes for them, tell her good girl, blink at her and then leave her alone and see where she settles.   
 oh, i talk to her all the time, just not precisely when she's jumped up on the arm of the couch! otherwise i spend an embarrassing amount of time talking to her, getting her used to my voice (in sing-song baby talk mostly). but i will definitely try the treats on the couch!   
 thanks for the update. i guess it's going to be one step forward, 1/2 step back with rosa for a while yet. but even little progress, is progress.   that's great that the rescue owner is going to come to come see you and rosa. don't worry about your apartment, i'm sure she's not expecting a palace. it will be interesting to see how rosa reacts to the rescue owner. unless she's a cat whisperer, i wouldn't be surprised if rosa greets her with hisses.  let us know how it goes. hope you have a restful day today. maybe rosa will sense you're not feeling well and come to give you snuggles.     
 generally shelters give cats flea meds, so they shouldn't have fleas when adopted out. so maybe they came in the the neighbour's dog. but if that's the case, you'll have to keep rosa on fleas meds, which is usually not necessary for an inside cat.  glad you're not allergic to flea bites. i am. or at least i get ugly red welts when bitten. i haven't had a flea bites in years now. and since my ruby is indoor only, don't expect to.  don't want to stress you out, but you may have to spray again, as the flea eggs hatch. i know, ewwwww...  here's a couple tcs articles that may be helpful, if the fleas show up again.  cat fleas homemade flea remedies for cats  and, yes, do read up on scruffing. a quick google search seems to suggest it's ok, as long as you don't lift them while scruffing. but then another said no scruffing at all. so definitely research it.  
 @helenww thanks so much - it really is a dance.  rosa still hasn't eaten today, so i'm worrying about her a bit - wondering if she's having side effects from the bravecto or if she's still really stressed. i'm slating tomorrow morning for picking her up and brushing her - i'm sure it will make her feel better - but i'm quite nervous about doing it. she did stay in her cat tree all morning which was very weird for her, and she only hissed a little when i brought her breakfast out so she could have some if she wanted - i got way closer to that cat tree than i ever have before she hissed! but she was up very late last night for cat karaoke so i'm trying not to make a big deal about it.  just hoping she eats today or tonight - fortunately she always has food available (i measure it out so i know what she gets in each bowl, but there's always at least one with food in it) so when she gets hungry she can eat whenever she wants.  
 day 1 of trying to actually touch my cat: fail. she'd been hiding behind the bathtub all day, which is where the rescue owner fished her out so easily, so in my hubris i decided to give it a shot. i got her brush, a container of chicken to try to tempt her appetite, and a towel, and stuck my arm down there as confidently as i could...  to be fair, i did touch her. briefly. she hissed and moved over. i tried again, there was hissing/spitting, and she ran for her window cave. i brought her dinner, blinked at her (she blinked back or maybe just got sick of looking at me), talked to her a little, and left her alone. we'll try again tomorrow.  i'm worried because she hasn't eaten since yesterday morning and because i've read way too much about flea medication having terrible effects on cats today and i keep thinking i see her twitch. which i'm sure i have not actually seen in a medical side effect way, but it's making me crazy.   
 welcome to cats! they are each so different from one another, yet remarkably the same. one thing i wouldn't do - and it is up to you - is leave food out. my cats eat twice a day - when i wake up and when i get home from work. cats in the wild do not have food available to them at all times. anyone i know who has a "chubby" cat is someone who leaves food out. trust me - they don't need it! my cats are all a nice size with no big, sagging bellies! another thing - and again, up to you - dry food is for owner convenience only. it was never made to be a nutrient rich food source. they get dry skin, flakes, and dull coats. there are many articles about it. i feed only high quality canned - if i didn't have so many cats i would make my own! when i had only three, i made my own, and let me tell you - they were in top health and their coats were incredible! the better the food quality, the less you will see the vet! true! the last time i called for something, and i don't even remember what it was, the receptionist said "...we haven't seen you for a while!" that's a good thing, right? one of the cats i made my own food for was a "hider". she just about lived in the basement. after a while of eating super nutritious food, she came out - socialized - was happy - bloomed just like a flower! i was amazed. a friend of mine makes his own food. he has only three - invested in a top quality grinder - throws in whole chicken breasts, thighs, etc. the cats get calcium from the ground up bones - just as if they were in the wild. i never hear him talk of problems or vet visits. a little research will show you many home-made recipes. i truly believe that many problems can be solved by changing the diet to the one most closely resembling what they would get in the wild. they are little tigers you know! there are also a world of books - one that is really worth the money is "the natural cat" by anitra frazier. i have rambled on too long - you are doing a great job - just fine tune it, and she will come around!  
 honestly, right now all i'm trying to do is get the cat eating. she does get chicken along with her dry food, but she won't touch wet food right now (she won't even eat tuna) and the relationship is fragile enough that i don't want to mess with her routine until, you know, i can actually touch her without a major freakout.  i'm working on it, but she's a tough cookie! she finally ate some treats tonight and i'm thrilled because i was worried she was having a serious medication side effect.   
 because the weather has been so dang hot this year (today is going to be in the 80's and muggy, in oct for crying out loud!) we just have a/c window units and we don't leave them running while we are gone, i crumbled two temptation treats between my finger and sprinkled over gypsys wet so she would finish it before we left for work. i went through many, many different brands of wet before she decided on fancy feast gravy lovers. she gets small amts of wet several times a day and since she doesn't overeat we free feed purina one hairball formula. you are doing a fantastic job. i know temptation treats aren't healthy but most cats will do anything for them so in moderation you might try them to lure and reward her. keep us updated and post lots of photos. check out some of jackson galaxys videos on youtube, he is very inspiring.  
  happy thanksgiving    
 did she hiss at the shelter lady?   
 she did when i got her but she didn't get a chance the day she was de-flea-d - the rescue lady was so good she had her scruffed, picked up, and in her lap before rosa knew what hit her. she was quiet and complacent when she was in her lap. i just can't find my way to that point.   @furballsmom lol, she has a lot of nicknames - miss kittycat, ro-ro, princess hissy pants... it wouldn't surprise me if she thought i was just a crazy person who didn't even know her name!    
 update: i taped the wand toy to a wooden spoon so i could reach rosa in the window. she put up with it (sniffing at it and then sort of edging suspiciously away) for about 30 seconds, and then the hissing. scratch that idea for now - it was hard to control so maybe it just wasn't gentle/smooth enough for her.   
 oh this is awesome to know! i have a long long list of cat things to buy/try/do... but i think this needs to happen soon so at least she's comfy in her window.   
 sometimes the skittish ones can make the best companions. my olivie was(and still is) a very skittish one as a kitten. it is thought that possibly one, or both of her parents may have been feral. the first few days after i adopted her, she was very wild and hard to catch. she slowly came around, i think it helped her being around my other cats. she has become a very loyal companion, she loves to cuddle and purr, and she follows me everywhere i go. she is over three years old, and is still skittish...like if she hears a noise out in the hallway, she will run and hide, but when she is around me she is very comfortable and she's a very loving and sweet little kitty. it just takes time with the skittish ones. eventually your kitty will feel comfortable and come out of her shell a little bit. she may never be as outgoing as some cats are, but if you keep working with her, she'll be very trusting in you and you'll have a very loyal companion.  
   . i've read here on tcs that it's important to let them make a 'kill' (stuffed toy, catnip banna, treat etc...) at the end of laser play so they don't get frusterated. you two are doing great     
 can you sit on the floor? if you can, throw some treats and lure her close and for the last couple, put them in your hand at your fingertips and your hand flat on the floor. i don't know why, but it was the hand on the floor bit that let barry relax and take a treat - hand in the same spot 4 inches off the floor was no good. crazy cats.  another thing i did with barry (and duncan too, but he was different) is that anytime we walked past each other, i would reach down and touch him. usually just a hand or fingertip along his flank and maybe around his tail if i was lucky. i never reached ahead or out for him and only did it if he was right next to me. i think the let him know he was safe, i was safe, and that i would, basically, go away.  
 aww, i love reading updates about rosa. she is such a cutie and seems so happy and comfortable. those are all awesome accomplishments for her! well done to her and you!   
 yes, definitely a paws-itive update.  and it's not unusual for cats not to hang around when strangers are in the house. she also may end up feeling more confident around women than men, since she lives with her mom.   how long will you be away over christmas?  
 hi. there is another recent thread that has some similarities to your situation.(why is she acting like that? - under cat health forum). and, the op is wondering if in her case it could be hyperesthesia. check out that post and look up the condition and see if you think that could be a possibility. worth looking at, just in case! i will look for it again too.  
 @pushpurrcatpaws he hasnt, but that's a good idea. thank you i will add it to my list of questions for the vet!! i definitely want to check medically before drugging him and potentially hiding a medical issue!  
 let us know how things go   
 hi. too many unknowns. was the breathing trouble diagnosed/treated? is she still separated from her sister? where did the raw spot on her shoulder come from? is she concentrating her grooming on that shoulder? sorry to bug you with so many questions, but answers might help narrow down some ideas for you to try to help her. thanks!  
 hi! can you try playing some low volume classical harp music, or try the app relax my cat. there's also musicforcats.com that could help possibly help to calm her a bit.  
 hi! so the collar has been removed? is she having an an allergic reaction to fleas? have you tried the chamomile?  
 yes per the vets instructions i have removed the collar. currently looking for another solution to the fleas. i have tried multiple times to bathe them, but they will have none of it. i have not tried chamomile, how would i go about doing that?   
 since the vet thinks she might have been allergic to the flea collar - is the spot on her shoulder close to where the collar was? maybe the collar actually caused the raw spot. the excessive licking all over could also be a carry over from the collar allergy. not sure how long that would take to dissipate, but i am guessing it would not be instantaneous with the removal of the collar.  
 it's starting to get a bit better. couldn't try the chamomile yet (low on funds) but i think they cooler weather may be having a small effect. (fewer fleas). she is also calming a bit from the separation anxiety she was suffering being away from her sister. i expect she will fully recover soon.   
 thanks for letting us know! i'm happy that things are better, and i so understand about the finance thing.  
  if you can't put a tall cat condo next best option is shelves along the walls. cats like to jump and get up high so they're jumping on what's available. my couch has a cover over it you can buy online. it comes in different colors. they use my 72in cat tree and love my big scratch bed and tall square scratching post.. also sleep on top of my couch that's covered. nice navy blue color. extra bonus-let them up high and they will catch flies!  
 discipline doesn't work with cats. unless you want to give them behavioral issues. you can't train a cat not to be a cat. instead, look at it from their point of view. what makes it so interesting? can you provide them a more appealing alternative? can you make the forbidden surfaces less appealing? no? then you probably will want to rehome your knick knacks and keep non-ammonia-based cleaners handy.  
 if you live somewhere that sells those annoying noisy, motion-activated halloween decorations you could place them strategically on the counter and shelf. the beauty of those is they go off whether you are there or not.  
 older cats tend to be very tolerant of kitten antics and allow them to get away with a lot of annoying behavior. however as the kitten grows up, the older cat will be more forceful in telling the, to stop. so i would just let time and casey take care of the situation. if he gets annoyed enough he will let casey know.  
 last night i put a little litter box in my room and it totally worked!! i heard him get off my bed and heard litter rustling around. this morning i checked and i found that the litter had been used  worked 100% thankyouu   
 you might find suggestions using the search: search results for query: recliner | thecatsite  
 i was wanting to deter them from going under it while it is up. it's for a large 3 yo 9lb cat that likes to hide under. we want to train it to stay away.   
 the cat doesn't mind those mats with the nubs. the only other thing i could think of besides the scatmat is to actually sew trellis fabric around the bottom to create a barrier but would still allow chair to recline.   
 when i was a kid, we had a miniature schnauzer, "tyrone," who used to go under the reclining chair when my mom was sitting there.  one day, the phone rang and my mom got up to answer it. she pushed the footrest down and ran for the phone, not realizing that tyrone was sitting underneath. he got swept under and was trapped under the chair!  the phone call ended. about a half-hour later, we were all sitting around the living room and somebody asked, "hey, where's the dog?"  we searched and searched but couldn't find him. we looked everywhere. finally, somebody called his name and we heard a whimper come from underneath the recliner. my mom pulled the lever, up went the recliner and out ran the dog... shaken but none the worse for the wear.  once we figured out that tyrone was all right, we had a good laugh.  the dog never sat under the recliner again... once was enough for him!   knowing the way reclining chairs are built...(i used to be a furniture salesman)...most of the "pinch points" are covered or recessed in order to prevent injury from just such an event. not to say that it's 100% safe but, yes, most furniture is built with just such an event in mind.  yes, the cat might be swept under like our dog was but kitty isn't likely to get hurt.   just be careful and watch out for the cat sitting underneath.  cats learn fast. once will probably be enough.  
 i really don't want to get rid of goblin(top cat) he is incredibly sweet with people and occasionally sweet with his peers. (like this photo) i am open to advice if any of you have successfully dealt with a cat agression issue.  the behavior: he stalks and "plays with" primary our female cat. he bites her to the point where he rips out fur and causes bleeding wounds. she probably stimulated this interaction by timid, prey like behavior and now her behavior is reinforced by his bullying.   what we have tried: larger space, more vertical space, extra cat litter box, isolation introduction (we did that textbook slow), isolating him to stop the behavior, redirecting with play, daily multiple play sessions to "exhausted " state, trips outside on the leash, electronic toys, regular toys. he loves playing and will readily play with us. however, there is a limit to the time we have to distract him and his stalking is very frequent.  pending: we ordered some pheromone defusing products.   solutions that are not acceptable to us: spaying with water (he doesn't mind that anyway, it would just terrorize the female more). hitting, harming or greatly diminishing the quality of life for any cat. one can't just be permanently isolated for example.  
 thank you, trying the picture again!   
 i started off free feeding my cat spooky and when i took him for his checkup, he had gained a lot of weight and they advised me to scale it back. i followed their directions, but now all he does is whine when he dosent see any food in the pan. i tried to keep a routine of feeding him one half a can first thing in the morning, then the other half just before noon, then a whole can before bedtime. his meowing though is relelentless and he’ll act rebellious, flipping over the bowl and scratching up the carpet until he wears us down enough to give him more when he’s not supposed to. any advice on how to discipline him so that this doesn’t happen? it’s very tiring and it’s driving my whole house crazy  
 hello. we've welcomed a 13 month old spayed female into our home that has a resident neutered 3 year old male. they're becoming fast friends despite some stress issues at first, but we're noticing and starting to get concerned with some behavior. our male cat seems to be smelling and trying to lick our female cats genitals quite often. the female doesn't seem to mind and will at times, for lack of a better term, umm... grind into it. we don't know if its sexual at all, or if it will lead to mating down the road that will just not result in kittens since they're both fixed. or if its merely a "nice to meet you, we're family now so i'll help keep you clean". if sexual, we'd like to curb this behavior. any ideas of if its likely sexual or likely harmless? and possible solutions to stopping it if its sexual?   thank you.  
 hi!  can you give your vet a call?  
 oh, he likes you. he really does. and he is saying that. if he allows you to touch him, and he shows you his belly and he meows at you, he not only likes you, he also trusts you. now, he is either a very trusting feral, or a long-standing stray, so he is also very aware that humans can be unpredictable, and they can go away without warning. but you can be sure that he likes you very much, indeed!  
 he loves you, but is distrustful of people in general. he is a cat. independent, proud, and has never known the love of one special person so tries to be a friend to all. it would be absolutely wonderful to take him and give him a forever home, but since he is a stray, he would be very scared and would take a while to get used to being inside. it usually takes up to a month to get them used to being inside, and he could not be let out at all for that time so he gets used to the new surroundings. he may hide under a bed for a week, but provide him with food/water/litter box, and sit with him often, talking softly and he would be fine. getting him neutered would be a top priority to stop his spraying/wandering tendencies, and would make his life much better. a safe inside home is much better than trying to survive outside, there are too many dangers. cars, big dogs, and most of all people that come to believe he is a nuisance, or that there are too many of them and poison/shoot them. good luck and keep us posted!  
 as @di and bob posted, there are so many dangers for stray cats living on the street, so a loving home where he could feel safe and cared for, is almost always the better life for a cat.  if you should convince your mother that he'd be a purr-fect pet, there are lots of tcs members who've socialized stray/feral cats who could offer advice and support.   
 this cat obviously likes you! the bite he gave you may have actually been a love bite which, some cats do. him laying with his belly up is actually a sign of trust in most cases. i think he would love to go home with you. he may not seem like it at first and may not understand what is going on but, in time, he will come around. you could always leash train him and take him to the café to visit when you go. as others have mentioned above, there are plenty of people who have a wealth of experience and would be glad to help with advice in helping you and him make this transition. he's a pretty boy and it's great you have taken an interest in helping him. i hope you can convince your mother to let you take him home. best of luck to you!  
 i swear he is asking you to be his!!!! i really hope you can convince your mother. if not, i would still get him to a vet and at the least, surrender him to a no kill shelter so he can find a loving home. he is has a very adoptable personality, and as others have mentioned, the life of a cat on the streets is not the greatest. maybe you could convince your mom about adopting him telling her that even though losing them in the end is devastating, the love, affection and companionship they provide is so worth it. and this is going to sound terrible, but i would give her a list of all the things that can happen to him living on the streets. none of which are a good way to go. painful diseases that go left untreated painful infections that go left untreated painful parasites that go left untreated getting hit by car getting poisoned getting abused by another human getting attacked by another cat getting attacked by a different animal getting mauled /eaten by a predator starvation and dehydration becoming injured for any reason and not healing well, which can lead to all of the above. i'm not writing any of this so that you feel bad in any way. i think it is very loving and commendable what you are doing for this beautiful creature and would like to thank you. but perhaps, (i was raised in a large, overbearing family, so this is just part of my upbringing!lol!) a little guilt trip is in order.   
 i totally understand your mom's feelings. it is really, really hard losing a pet. and that is one of the reasons i waited so long to adopt my ruby, because even before i brought her home, i had in the back of my mind, that someday i'll have to say goodbye to her.  but, i finally realized that avoiding the eventual goodbye, meant i was missing out on the love and companionship of a cat in the present. and also meant a deserving cat was stuck in a shelter. so i adopted ruby, with the promise from a family member that they would be there for me when i eventually have to say my goodbye.  since cats live a long time, maybe you can tell your mom that the cat will be yours, and when you eventually move out, you'll take him with you. and that it is good for you to learn to be responsible for another living being.   maybe you could compromise with her, and say you will only bring the cat home, if after a vet checkup he is deemed healthy and disease-free. that of course doesn't guarantee a long life, but it does put the odds in his favour.   or maybe tell her all you want for christmas, is a gorgeous white cat.   
 he is precious. please take him home with you.  
  as others have pointed out, he loves you. without a doubt. many outward displays. no surprise he goes around the cafe looking for a handout. he's in survival mode, like many strays. i'd look at it this way, he's not going to be around much longer if he stays outside full time. that's just the way it is. others here probably know better than me how to go about preparing him to be a part of the family, should your mother acquiesce. if you do try to adopt, you could eventually try supervised walks on a leash. my cat took right to it with training. takes time. you have to believe you'd be doing him a big favor. i suppose there's always an option to send him to a no-kill shelter or releasing him back to the cafe area if he's downright miserable at home with you after some time. but i do believe he deserves an opportunity for a long and happy life within your circle of friends. only mitigating factor would be your ability to pay for food, medications, and vet bills.  
 i can't help with your question of whether this is normal behaviour, but with him being a stray, i would be careful letting him around your cats, particularly if they aren't up-to-date with all their shots. also, with him being intact, watch to ensure he doesn't spray inside your house.  are you planning to get him neutered? and make him an inside cat, with the others, since he already seems to think he's one of them.   
 hi guys,  my cat is now 2.5 years old. i have two cats, but only one with this problem. i've read articles from general internet searching and those posted here after searching other people's peeing issues (such as how to solve litterbox problems in cats: the ultimate guide and litterbox problems? here's why you should call your vet).  my problem is not unlike the post here cat keeps peeing!!!  i have one cat that was so good up until almost 6 months when she started to go crazy peeing everywhere. this was right before her surgery to get spayed. it has been problems ever since. i asked the vet and she wasn't in heat before the surgery. so i wonder why she went crazy peeing right before. is that normal for a female cat to do that before she goes in heat? to suddenly pee everywhere? it made me wonder about whether she might have some remnant ovaries that is causing this peeing outside the litter box issue. i haven't gotten this checked since it's quite expensive and i'm not sure i need to do this. she hasn't shown any signs of being in heat. every once in a while she'll want to hide in a dark corner of the house for some reason and sometimes when she acts weird like that she might pee somewhere outside the litterbox. but other times, she'll be normal and still do it.  the problem is that she isn't avoiding the litter box entirely. she'll go more often than not and then once a week or a few weeks, she'll suddenly decide to pee somewhere. she'll go into the litterbox 90% of the time. this problem is only for her peeing. she poops in the litterbox. it could be my bed, or my office. i can't understand what is causing this at all. no disruptions in the environment, no changes, she'll just decide to pee somewhere else.  she's been doing this ever since she was 6 months old to now. she's 2.5 years old now. i have tried so many thing. i visited the doctor and they said she had no urine issues and only suggested to me things that i have already tried. i tried buying different litterboxes, using feliway, those pheromone collars. i bought litter attract and that didn't seem to do much good. i clean the litter boxes several times a day. i fear that it has become a behavioural issue outside of any medical ones (which she didn't have any according to the doctor).  someone suggested locking her in with the litterbox to retrain her to go only in the box. it'll didn't really help much. she'll be ok and then she goes back to peeing outside the litterbox every so often again. maybe i didn't do it long enough? how long should i have done this?  what else can i do to retrain her to pee only in the litterbox? i am out of ideas. is it possible that some cats simply aren't trainable? would hiring a cat behaviorist help?  edit: i should add that my other cat has no issues and they get along very well. they are often sleeping together so i don't think it's an issue there.  
 hi jem. so far she has peed only on my bed, office and one of the cat bed cushions. it used to be more places but in the last few months only those places. i am in a high rise and they are indoor cats only so no issues with neighboring pets.   
 my schedule hasn’t changed. i don’t have too many high places for them. i have a window box but she doesn’t really use it. what sort of high places should i be thinking of incorporating? he does sometimes chase her around. not sure how to stop that. it looks like playing to me though.   
 i feed her wet canned food as well as hill oral care.   that is very interesting as i wonder if that has been the issue. she wants to eat and so she pees. i will try to feed her more and see if this makes a difference. thanks for the suggestion!  i live in a high rise and no pets on my floor.   
 this might seem a little stupid, but can you put a collar with a bell on pecan? this will enable the other two cats to hear where pecan is or when pecan is coming to minimize her ability to surprise ambush them. my nine month old kitten was inadvertently terrorizing my niece's timid/traumatized cat through his efforts to get the older cat to play with him. i took the older cat's collar off so he could move around silently but left my kitten's collar with the bell on so the older cat knew where he was. i don't know how much that contributed to him settling in and calming down, but the older cat has slowly been getting more confident. it's not the same since the kitten wasn't trying to be vicious or aggressive, he just doesn't have good social skills when it comes to other cats.  
 to the op, i'm so glad you came back, hopefully some of the suggestions help you and the cats   
 hi! how are things with you? how are the geckos?  how are pecan, artemis and callisto doing?  
 so i might be worried over absolutely nothing, but i thought it worthwhile to check! background: i have two adult female cats, chilli and chai. chai is new-ish. i did proper introductions with her over a period of about 3.5 weeks and the cats now have been peacefully coexisting for about 2.5 weeks. so far they get along great. chilli is definitely the alpha cat and sets the house rules which chai respects. chai loves chilli and chilli tolerates her very patiently. they occasionally lick each other and usually sleep near each other.  they also recently have begun playing chase at night. based on my intuition and limited experience (i could be wrong, though) it seems like a perfectly harmless and fun chase game without any aggression. they alternate who is the chaser/chasee, do a lot of false starts and zoomie laps, and at the end of it they drink some water together and fall asleep near one another. they occasionally do a mini pounce on the other cat but i have yet to see any serious wrestling. (as an aside question, does this sound like normal kitty play?)  my issue is chilli has begun to get into what seems like a playful mood when chai is using the litter box. i had two litter boxes for them, but they absolutely ignored the second one and only use the same large hooded box. for a while i had the hood off to make sure no one felt cornered, but things went smoothly so i put it back on. everyone’s still using it totally normally. if chilli’s relaxed, she couldn’t care less when chai is digging in there. doesn’t even glance over. but when she’s active, she gets very excited by the digging sounds and starts annoyingly going over to the box and making movements as though she wants chai to chase her. i worry she is blocking the entrance as she stands very close. she even jumps on the box and peers into the entrance from the top. it has to be intimidating when you’re trying to pee! if i’m there i take chilli away and try to distract her. but i’m sure she does it sometimes when i’m gone or sleeping.  i guess my question is, is this dominant/guarding behavior or do you think it is just sheer playfulness? and, do you imagine it could be stressful for chai? like i said, chai loves chilli. she wants to be as close to her as possible, purring, at all times. but her immune system isn’t strong at the moment so i’m working to make her environment as stress-free as possible. i apologize for the long-windedness of this question!!  
 i have six cats in total, all are fixed and healthy. 3 of them are tame adults from 3 - 7 years old. the other 3 are slightly over a year old.   these 3 younger cats were born feral and i assume they had no human contact in their early stages. 2 are male siblings and 1 is a female from different rescue case. when we first adopted them as kittens, all they did was hide from us. however, they got along really well with our other cats.   things have improved a lot by now. they no longer hide, they are not afraid to hang out where we hang out. they play in front of us and they rarely bolt off when we get close to them unless we made sudden moves.  although they let us get close to them, they have never allowed us to touch or pet them. i have tried petting our other cat in right front of them and then slowly moving my hand towards them but it doesn’t work. they would quickly sniff my hand and back off. if i persist, they would bolt off eventually. however, they have no issues touching me. when i am sleeping or lying on my bed, they would jump on legs and play with my feet.   the ex-ferals have only been with us for a year so i am not sure if they just need more time and will eventually give in to us. i wonder if anyone else has had experience with such cats and have successfully managed to tame such cats. if so, how did you do it?  
 hello and welcome to tcs. one recommendation is to use a back scratcher to get feral cats used to being touched.  this link has a video: adopting/socializing adult semi-feral  
 interesting! i could try this too. thank you.   
 if they are visiting for a short time i wouldn’t worry about it. sometimes cats make up their mind based in first fright and that is that for them. if they are visiting for months then i would start having them be the ones that feed her and have them spend time in her presence without looking at her. for now just ignore the hissing altogether and have them keep their distance.  
 thanks, they're both precious although as much as leo is in motion, good pictures of him aren't easy to come by  with all of the different strategies i saw in the various articles on food aggression, i honestly wasn't sure if my strategy was going to help or hinder. or maybe someone here had a kitty hack they'd used for this problem before    
 no kicking or any signs of play. earlier today she gently bit my arm for a good few seconds, let go, and laid next to me. i always thought love bites were during grooming sessions but guess not   
 thanks for the articles! especially the first one. after reading that i definitely think they are love bites now. my previous cat (rip ❤️) when she was a kitten would play rough and bite. this was mainly because my sister encouraged it. it took me a long time to break her of that habit when she was a young cat but afterward she never bit again.   spock is a silly boy. he honestly makes me think of a dog more than a cat haha. he's a maine coone and i have heard that they can carry that type of disposition. so, yep, if he bites too hard then i will say owww more loudly so he can take a hint. i am sure he does not intend to hurt.   thanks!   
 just found this thread and i hope it hasn't been so long that no one will reply. i have had my pippa as an indoor cat since may 2018. she had been born a feral under neighbour's house but i took to feeding her and her family. she and i always had a good rapport and she would sit in my lap outdoors to eat her food so her brothers couldn't take it from her. this girl never even miaowed when living outdoors, however, as calico's do i read, she became very vocal after moving inside. after my darling chili, 18 yrs old, passed on in july, pippa kept coming to my door and wanting to stay with me so eventually i allowed her to and she has been the salve for my broken heart that i needed. all is well with us apart from when she cuddles with me if i don't mind my fingers she will bite! i can be stroking her fur gently and she will bite, hard! she tried to take a bite of my arm this morning! i say no bites! sternly to her and put her onto the floor. can anyone possibly say how long it took them to train their lovely cats to stop biting? she has been doing this for about three months now. i love to have her cuddling with me but i am forever having to put her onto the floor because my skin is thin and i can't tolerate the biting. i think she is only wanting to play because i know she loves me and i certainly love her back. this is our one problem and i hope maybe someone can at least say if i'm doing right and a roundabout time frame of when she might get the idea! she is a very clever girl..would have thought she would have caught on by now! many thanks for your help >^..^<  
 hi everyone!  i'm new here & spent quite a bit going over other threads relating to the same subject but unfortunately, i could really use some help!  i have two cats: one is an 11 year old (black) male and my second little guy is a 6 year old (black) mixed siamese male. i've had both since they were kittens.  unfortunately it appears that the younger cat (latte) has been pooping outside the boxes. he doesn't do it on a daily basis: in the past he's gone 6 months without a single incident. at times he can barely go 6 days.  he has no health issues: his behavior otherwise is completely normal (for him!) he eats well, he plays all day, loves snuggles, hanging with his bro and sleeps well. he's the picture of a healthy, showcat (he looks like tv material). his brother, felix, has zero bathroom issues.  a bit of background:  my husband works sporadic hours. latte is closest to him (although close with everyone else) but he's his bff. my husband can go a week without working then suddenly get called to work 6 days in a row. his hours are almost -always- weird overnight/second shift (think, 4/5/6 to as late as 3:30 on some nights when things were crazy). we noticed a very distinct pattern: he poops on the floor when my husband's "routine" gets changed around. if we leave home for a week, he'll randomly poop on the floor. if he works after not working for a while, he'll poop on the floor. normally, someone is home all day with him, whether it's me, my husband or both (most of what we do is at night).  for example, my husband was home for a couple nights.. tonight we had to go to class.. and voila, he pooped.  he poops in similar places: always around or near the boxes. both are cleaned daily. the areas around the box are also very clean and sanitized. when he poops in the box, it's not on the rim or anywhere else funky. their food and water aren't even in the same room as either box.   we're sure it has to do with the work related shift changes causing him anxiety. .....but we don't know what to do. it's gotten to the point that when we're home, we'll be doing homework, watching tv, etc and will literally pet him for -hours- (he wants love like crazy!) we play with him, groom him, pet him, love him but it's not enough. i don't know if there's anything else we can do to try to keep him happy enough that he doesn't get so stressed when we leave for a few hours at night, or when the husband has to work.  also, he has tons of toys to keep him stimulated: they have a toy chest they can access on their own and we also have another "secret" toy chest we pull toys from so they get new goodies so often. they have access to several windows overlooking all sorts of exciting things (cars, the garden etc).  does anyone have any advice to properly train or teach him it's a huge no?  thanks so much!  
 he is getting anxiety when his routine is changed. he loves your husband and becomes really scared when he doesn't have him around. you might call your vet and get a recommendation for some calming treats to help him through these times. there are many out there that are natural supplements too. there is nothing you can do to change your husband's behavior, so it is the cat's you have to concentrate on to make him less anxious. try to give him lots of extra attention when your husband is gone and maybe leave a radio on when you are gone too. cat's live in the present, so everytime your husband leaves for extended times, your poor cat thinks it is forever.  
 you definitely don’t want to let her get in a fight or even near the other cats. they may contain infectious diseases that could be passed to your cat through a bite. walk her only if you can keep her away from these other cats. otherwise keep her in.  
 we have a fairly good routine going at the moment, we typically go out in the morning and evening. if she carries on too much i ignore her until she is quiet then we go out. at the moment we are sitting and watching and if they get too close i pick her up and move her out of the way. i guess i was more concerned that mentally she might become distressed by being on the leash and not being able to go where she wants when she wants. when the cats are not around we walk to her schedule and go pretty much where she wants to go. would love to hear from anyone else who walks their cats.   
 i walk my guy, i don't go anywhere where there are other cats, i watch like a hawk for dogs, squirrels, other people, noisy trucks etc. my whole intent is to give him the mental and physical exercise but also to keep him safe. any distress he may or may not feel about not being able to go where he wants to go is totally overridden by safety concerns, staying out of neighbors yards, away from grass that's been sprayed for weeds  you're already able to ignore her until you are ready to go out. simply apply that to maintaining protocols that ensure her safety, including not letting her go where she wants, if it isn't safe. stray/feral cats are often sick with transmittable illnesses, so be very sure you're not walking your baby through their pee or poop, and that she's up to date on all her shots.  
   
 kidney numbers are tricky. they only start to creep up well after damage has already started, and then sometimes the cat will have high numbers but no symptoms, or they can have low numbers but bad symptoms.  but even if it is early stages of kidney disease, you can't do a whole lot besides being careful with their diet, which if he's not eating is a moot point at the moment anyway.  right now you need to get him to eat, whatever it is. meat flavored baby food, deli meat, canned tuna, unhealthy cat treats-whatever it takes. 2-3 days without any food is grounds for a trip to the vet, because it can get dangerous very quickly.  stress definitely affects health, whether there are underlying conditions involved or not. cats internalize their stress and it can crop up in ways like lack of appetite. i think calming products would be great to try. feliway definitely (it's not homeopathic by the way, it has real ingredients). it mimics the calming hormones that cats respond to. a diffuser will work better than the spray in the home, and for car trips the spray would be good to use on his bedding. another product that i've heard great things about is richard's organics pet calm-those are drops that you put on the tip of their tongue. i had a couple customers who absolutely swore by it for stress-related health issues with their cats.  something else to think about is that cats usually find a change in environment more distressing than being away from their people. some cats are exceptions, if they especially crave human company or are good travelers, but otherwise it's usually best to leave the cat in one spot and have someone check in on them if you're gone more than a couple of days, so if that is at all an option you could try it next time.  
 i feel that i should strongly clarify here... a lot of forums i'm looking up online are talking about aggression like 'biting too hard when playing' or 'putting ears back and hissing'... this is not what i'm talking about. imagine you just cornered a wild lynx that's ready to fight for it's life. the people who witnessed this unfold were terrified that this cat was going to seriously injure or kill them. but he has no signs of being distressed when he's not in this state. in between these phases, he is completely normal - affectionate, playful and well-mannered. i know it sounds like it doesn't make any sense, but this is as much information as i have.  
 have you thought about building him am outdoor enclosure in your yard? it would allow him to be outside, stay in your yard and be safe from, strays, other animals, cars and so on and would keep him from going after all the birds, but still give him the entertainment of watching them.  
 hi. you're all good with me about being a dog person - seeing as how you are now also becoming a cat person too!!!!  i can only guess that she is reacting to the change in smell from the dog's bath. with any luck (and, perhaps to your dismay) the smell from the bath will dissipate quickly, and you will see her go back to her normal behavior. getting some water on her from the dog shaking probably didn't help matters.  whatever you used to bathe him, i would definitely try another product - preferably one that is unscented if at all possible - next time you bathe your dog.  also, until the scent becomes less, you might want to try to keep her away from the dog/the dog away from her - no reason to freak her out any more than necessary.   if it doesn't go back to normal soon, please let everyone here know.  btw - if you have anything in the house that has the dog's (pre-bath) smell on it, you could try rubbing that onto the hair of your dog to lessen the new smell a bit.  
   this is what i used. i know i’m going to get a million replies about how i should use organic and holistic and this and that. i am a poor person lol.  
 thanks for all the advice. i ended up taking the opportunity while the dog was resting on the couch to “re-introduce” her to the dog. she didn’t growl or his but you could see there was some tension. the dog hardly moved as he didn’t really even know there was an issue. she smelled him a few times and slowly slinked off the couch. she is enjoying the window sil now.   i’m going to let her take her time with comfortability. baby steps.  
 yeah, that's what i was thinking too. if the cat had never seen the dog doing that, i can see why she was alarmed! the smell matters too.   
 i agree with the others. it's the smell.  not only will the shampoo have its own fragrance, whatever smell from the dog that the cat got used to has now been washed away.  remember that the fragrances in pet shampoos are 99% for the benefit of humans. most animals don't give a hoot and, likely, they think that their own smell is better.  that's why dogs like to roll in dead fish and other things that we think are icky. they think it smells like chanel no. 9!   try a fragrance-free shampoo, next time.  remember: there's a difference between "fragrance-free" and "unscented" products. fragrance-free products have no added fragrance chemicals. unscented products do have fragrance chemicals. they just add enough fragrance to mask the scent of whatever else is in the product.  anyhow, i use dr. bronner's castile soap for just about everything. they make a fragrance-free version called "baby mild."  baby unscented pure-castile liquid soap - 32 oz.  i've been using dr. bronner's soaps around the house for just about everything for decades and they haven't failed me yet!   
 i really appreciate all of the responses and suggestions. almond (our cat) is still in the window sil.  i hope she snaps out of it soon.   i’m just letting her go at her own pace. poor almond   
  is he neutered?  
  thank for your input, its different walls and doors and he's clearly doing it for attention. i will try your suggestions and hopefully get this under control. he's clearly wanting more attention and tends to cry even more when i'm home. i do play with him but our routine is off. stay tuned...  thank you!   
 if the routine is off, and he's expressing his annoyances, you may have an answer. you said he's in great health, does that mean a good weight, acts fine, eats, or is a "good health" status from your vet? if he hasn't seen a vet, a good check up with some blood work to check for some simple problems (that might be treatable) is a good starting point. cats are weird, they show medical stuff with behavior issues sometimes.  if it's an issue of finances, @furballsmom i believe has some good links to making things do-able. trying to train a medical issue out of a cat with training methods is a losing battle. tried it. failed.  odds are at 2.5 years, he's bored, annoyed that you're not around as much and is just acting out. a lot of cats are nocturnal and sleep all day and drive us nuts at night.  if you can get the routine somewhat normal this might give you results. cats are funny to play with because they are so agile and do weird flips in the air and crazy stuff that keeps us laughing and keeps them being entertained because we encourage it. what types of toys do you have for this guy?  
 thank you for the tag, @1 bruce 1  hopefully something here helps if you need it;  no money for vet care? how to find help and save your cat's life  financial aid for pets  
 window screens are the one thing ruby has never scratched. at least not yet. so i've never had to look into cat proof screens. hopefully some other members have, and will see this thread, and reply.  welcome to tcs, btw.  if you're interested, we have a new cats on the block forum where you can "formally" introduce yourself and your kitten.   
 hi and welcome! we had a few windows with no screens, and in a high-rise wanted safe kitties but also some breeze. we attached some velcro to something similar to this and attached velcro to the window frame. no one tried climbing it though, so not sure if that will work in your case.  google express  
 i'm having an issue with one of our cats. the cat in question is an 8-year-old neutered male. he lives with 3 other male cats (14, 10, and 2).  recently, he has begun using the kitchen as a litter box. he is pooping under the kitchen table and peeing on the counter. he has had occasional litter box trouble off and on - it seems to come on suddenly - stick around for a bit - and then vanish and the in-between can be months and even years.  i don't believe it is a medical issue. i have taken him in before for peeing and the vet has never been able to find anything wrong with him. he is not currently displaying any signs of physical distress. i can't rule out a medical issue - but i'm thinking it is not.  we found him as a kitten and he is our most "feral" cat. he can be skittish and nervous and he's the only cat who hides when people come over. it seems like he is always on edge.  i have 6 litter boxes in the basement. they are all under-the-bed sweater totes - so they are bigger than the average litter box. we switched them to scoopable litter maybe 3 months ago, but the kitchen peeing actually began before that. it's just gotten worse in recent weeks.  here is what i've tried so far:  1) i've moved some of the boxes around in the basement. i wanted to make sure he wasn't feeling confined when he used the box.  2) i've tried using a litter pad (my mom has had success with this method), but none of the cats actually seem to understand they should use this as a toilet - they prefer to sleep in it.  3) i've placed boxes and foil and other things on the counter to discourage its use as a litter box. this seems to work sometimes, but then other times it does not.  they get confined in the kitchen/basement at night, but the "accidents" also happen during the day.  he is a passive cat and i have seen occasional bullying from the other cats, but nothing over the top. he did get a bite that turned into an abscess near his tail this past summer.  my thought is that he has maybe been attacked or bothered while using the boxes in the basement. there are days where there are no accidents - so he must be using them - just not all the time.  i don't think it's the litter, but it could be. i'm just trying a lot of things right now - looking for something that works. i'd prefer not to put a litter box in the kitchen, but i'm also not going to get rid of him. he's part of the family and i'm committed to sticking this out until we find a solution.  thanks!  
 do all the litter boxes have to be in the basement? can you spread them out through the house?  
 hi all,  today i'm going to talk about me and my partner's little angel (or beast). her name is daisy (or 'princess daisy tiger claw' for longer). her full name is rather apt really (and was chosen before we picked her up). she is 9 weeks old and just had her first vaccinations. she was already litter-box trained when we got her so that was a weight off our mind. we live in a small apartment, with a room which has her litter box, cat carrier and blanket, water dish etc.  she's one of the cutest buggers you'll ever see with beautiful fur and a sweet face to match, but an attitude like nothing else. i want to talk about three points of her behaviour today and see what you guys think. (bear with me, i want to paint a picture and not miss out any details)  1) her aggression:  don't get me wrong, she's loving...for about 15 seconds, then you pet her one time too many and it sends her into hyper and aggressive mode. she'll start biting our hands, climbing up our legs, scratching us as she does...jumping onto our shoulders when we're sat down....she even jumps onto my back from the couch when i'm on the floor (really hurts and i have to shake her off). she attacks our feet when we walk and assaults anything that moves or makes noise, including (mainly it seems) electrical wires i.e. laptop cords, headphone wires, xbox controller cable, tv cables. we covered as many up as we could but some we just can't hide. her claws are in everything. we know kittens are discovering what they have at this age, but none of our deterrents seem to work.   when she attacks our hands or feet, we push her forward as to confuse her (as it's supposed to apparently, instead of retreating). if she gets too aggressive i put her in time out, but after a while she makes too much noise with crying and scratching that i have to let her out into the rest of the apartment again. if she jumps on me or attacks me, or cables near me, i pick her up and blow in her face (which she seems to hate), and she backs off for about 10 seconds, then resumes. when she starts to claw furniture we pull her off and put her somewhere else, but she soon returns. it seems no matter what we do for her aggression, she doesn't learn to back off and behave. she thinks it's play, and i can't seem to get across that i don't want to, and that playtime is over when she does lash out.  2) her 'zoomies'  zoomies, a term my partner and i love. (as we understand; a state of sudden bursts of energy which result in her having fun running laps around the apartment like she's being chased or running for her life.) i guess this is also linked to her aggression in some ways. it's hilarious for a few minutes, and then she decides to run onto us, attacking our hair etc. we can't let her in the bedroom for more than a minute because she immediately starts attacking our feet that are under the covers, jumping and running all over us and general bouncing about on the bed. she'll sprint back and forth for a good while.   we bought her a three-ended tunnel which she loves, but the aggression she shows when playing with and in it are surprising, she'll run in and out of it all evening, attacking it, dragging it across the apartment. she has plenty of toys and spends a good amount of the day playing with them.   she seems fine when me and my partner are not around. we'll come home to find her asleep, but as soon as she's with us, it's like someone injects rocket fuel up her rear-end. she clearly loves being with us, but she gets so over the top that it's increasingly ending up with her going into time out (in her small room with her essentials). and she always seems to do this at night. i've taken her toys away to discourage her working herself up (doesn't work, as she finds shoes to assault...boxes...furniture...me). we even bought her 'licks' that were supposed to make her chilled out, but they had no effect on her whatsoever.   we just want to let her in the bedroom so she can snuggle with us, but apparently being on the bed means its playtime, and results in her being shut out for the night and crying at the door for us. i don't know what to do to tell her that bedtime means 'calm down!' (we are in canada and getting a couple of storms lately...might also have some effect?)  3) bathroom issues:  she is litter-box trained, but she seems to only pee. she hasn't pooped for about 3 or 4 days and we're beginning to get concerned. coincidentally she went to the vets on day 3 of her not pooping, and vet couldn't find anything wrong with her; no bloating or inflammation. she shows no signs of discomfort at all.  she eats raw meat for cats (with none of the weird vegetables in that not even humans can digest properly). it's just meat with blueberries, cranberries etc for pro-biotics. she has some occasional goats milk with it, a couple of drops of herring oil and the tiniest sprinkle of some nutrient formula in powder form, all of which is mixed up and she can't eat it quick enough. she's doubled her size in a week from what we can tell. this leads us to think she is going through a growth spurt. she doesn't seem to have pooped properly since we weened her off of her kitten kibble, which she won't even touch now. (we didn't want her on kibble, only healthy meat). whether or not this is because the raw meat is all absorbed by her system and nothing is excess or something like that i don't know. like i said, she pees fine, but she hasn't pooped for days, yet she seems fine. i'm not sure how much she drinks, but her water bowl is easily accessible for her, and i know moisture intake can effect stools etc.  anyway, i want to know what you guys might suggest. i love the little girl to bits. she has become my fur-child, but i don't want to spend her kitten days getting frustrated and annoyed at her, putting her in time-out and worrying about what she's going to attack next. i just want to love her and have her love us in return. she seems fine when i'm in her room with her. she'll sit on me and purr away, but as soon as i leave she cries and makes noise. when i let her out into a wider space with things to play with it sends her wild.  hopefully someone knows a trick or two about mischievous little kittens    thanks for your time and look forward to hearing from y'all!  enjoy some pictures of our little nugget!      
 hi. and oh my - she is a barrel of super energy, and yet she looks like an angel in those pics!!   i don't have a lot to offer on how to 'tame her down', it just seems so far that she doesn't get the idea of "ok, now it is time to stop'". i am sure other members on this site will see your post soon and give you some super ideas/tips.   but, in the meantime, look around for poop outside the litter box somewhere. if she is eating and drinking normally, and is (clearly) not demonstrating signs of a health issue, the poop has got to be coming out - somewhere. if she is truly not pooping anywhere else, she is going to start signs of something wrong - like not eating and vomiting, etc.  
 thanks for the replies everyone. she certainly looks like an angel, and she can be, but when the camera isn't on her she's a little devil.   so her behaviour is pretty normal then, and we've just got to be patient. i will say, after putting most of her toys away last night and then restricting them to her smaller room today and not putting them in the larger area of the apartment, she has been really better behaved, and sat on me a few times. i think she just had too many reasons to go bananas all at once.   we got her at 7 weeks and 5 days technically. we went to see her on a wednesday with the intention of taking her home on the saturday, but her owner told us we could just take her to save us a trip, as her mother didn't really want anything to do with her and she was being chased by dogs a lot, so we took her (a long ride home without a carrying case)  her raw food does have bone in it from what i can tell, so maybe that's a contributing factor. perhaps she needs a bit more moisture or oil in. we give her herring oil in her food, so maybe the concentration needs to be higher? she's not pooped around the litterbox. it's in a corner, covered and the floor around it is empty. the waiting game continues on that one. we have a smaller litterbox that she used when we first got her, and she last pooped in that i think. we changed it to a covered one because she got over-zealous with her covering with the litter and flicked piles of the stuff into our heater which is floor level. perhaps i'll try putting both out and see what happens.   i'll keep y'all posted. she's a crazy nugget for sure!   thanks for the replies and links!  
 yay about the poop!!!! just out of curiosity, which box did she use? also, if it turns out that she is either a two-box kitty (one for pee, one for poo) or she prefers the uncovered box, you can always buy a sizeable mat/rug to place under the box to help catch some of the litter she apparently is going to like to fling outside. of course, you would have to move it a little bit away from the floor heater.  
 hi. imo, it sounds like progress to me!!! she sounds curious, but leery. not sure what to think of austin - guess he wasn't interested enough in 'being free' to get into a possible confrontation!!   why oh why does it have to take so long with some of these kitties to get used to on another????? bless you - keep at it!!  
 she just was in the bedroom where he spent the day (he's in his bathroom sanctuary now) sniffing everything.  oh, i think he would have come out if i had let him, and i don't think it would have been a confrontation. i think cricket would have run back downstairs in a new york minute.  it was so easy introducing cats to swanie. hi! i'm swanie, who are you? welcome to the house! i miss that boy so much.  
 unfortunately, after that incident, she has been downstairs ignoring him. and dh is back to threatening to bring austin out and plop him on the couch. he is upset because austin is in "prison."  
 i just don't know what will happen if dh has his way and lets him out. i would also like her to get to know him and work things out so we can let him out. don't know how that will happen if she is down here ignoring him and he is upstairs in the bedroom. i never had this much trouble introducing any cat to swanie, he was such a sweet boy and loved them all.  
 as far as the house, @hellenww 's advice is good. if he attacks you as a game (my kitten's former favorite passtime when i tried to sleep in) i blew in her face and she stopped long enough for me to get away.  
 we had to get rid of my mom's cats old toy because she finally tore it up to un fixable. so i sewed a similar one and sewed onto it some of the fabric from the old one. she had the old toy when we got her from the shelter about 4 months ago. she has seperation anxiety. she wont take to the replacement. we even bought a new toy she doesn't like it either. how do we replace the shelter toy and get her approval? she has been quite vocal since we had to get rid of the ripped up shelter toy. any suggestions?  
 as those of you who read my earlier posts know, i made a decision to keep my skittish cat, felix, as long as it would out in the best interest of everyone concerned (my parents, felix, and my other cat, trixie).  now that i've had him for awhile longer, i am not sure what to think. part of me thinks that he's doing as good as could be expected, and i should just accept that he's a quirky cat  and another part of me wonders if he would be better of with someone else, or if i need to be more proactive about working with him. i did identify a behaviorist in my area, but am unsure because of the cost and because i don't think my parents would be happy with someone visiting. i would welcome any input on how to solve the behavioral issues i'm concerned about, and also how things are going overall.  the good: felix acts very comfortable with me. he will sit on my lap when tired. when outside in our yard, he will come up to me for petting. i can handle him fairly easily (putting him in his carrier, etc). he is not aggressive to people.  he has not had any more urinary issues, so i'm hoping that means that what we are doing for him in that area is working. he passed his two year vet exam when i took him in recently.  he is a rather sweet little cat, just somewhat skittish.  the bad: i noticed when i took felix in to get his leukemia booster and when i took him in to get his nails trimmed that he gets super scared (eyes wide, plastered to the back of the carrier) - same place with lots of animal and people smells. he will go and hide in the corner when my nephews (who tend to be loud are here). so he is very skittish around strangers. i would love to help him be more confident. i did wonder if switching to a calmer, more cat friendly vet practice might help.  i question his relationship with my parents. my sister, anne, said that felix seemed more comfortable around her then around my parents (but i'm not sure how serious she was). my mom doesn't try to pet him. my dad said that he will come over to be petted in the mornings, especially after he sees trixie being petted. he doesn't come in the house as much, but tends to hang out in our garage or outside (unless i bring him in). this is a change from when he was younger (he would hang out in the house more, and would also jump in my dad's lap). i think my dad did make some tactical errors (holding him to try to get him to calm down, picking him up by the scruff twice) that may have left an impression on him and can be a little gruff at times. if there is a problem there at present, i'm not sure how to fix it. i do plan to move out, but not anytime soon. of note, my other cat, trixie, loves my dad.  i do still occasionally notice felix and trixie having a tussle (i mentioned this in some of my earlier threads). it usually starts with felix staring at her like he's going to pounce and ends with either trixie running away or swatting at him. while i agree that it's not aggression of the kill or drive off type, i'm not sure it's completely innocent (because of not being something trixie enjoys). how should i intervene to break things up when this happens? i don't want trixie being intimidated as i want her to have a good last year or two (she has beginning ckd, so hard to tell how much time she has left).  he can get over stimulated easily when being petted or picked up and be mouthy (mouth on hand, but not so it breaks the skin). i usually handle this by telling him no and removing my hand. i would love to break him of the habit, but am not sure how.  
 make sure you also identify the different between annoyed biting and loving nibbling. it sounds like your cat might be too shy for the latter, but my female love chewing on my fingers during our cuddle times. the brother too. it’s pretty surprising but i read about it before knowing if i had to limit the behavior. also it sounds like there is a lot of picking up of the cats in the house? it’s rare that cats enjoy it. don’t pick them up unless you need to trim nails on a table and stuff.   
 so i just joined this site so that i could get some help because i love my cat, but he's the first one i've ever owned and i need help understanding what's going on in his head.  my cat is named teddybear, he's neutured and we got him a little over a year ago. he's a very sweet cat, although he is kinda antisocial. he is very patient with our two dogs and he tolerates them and their stupidity very well. he is very gentle and has never used his claws on purpose, not even while playing. he is clumsy though so he has scratched me a few times when i'm trying to save him from running into a wall or something.  we recently have let two friends start staying with us in our house because their landlord kicked them out. the room they have been staying in used to always have an open door with a babygate and that was where teddy could go and have alone time away from the dogs, as well as where his litterbox was. so now, that room has been closed off and we have moved his litterbox somewhere considerabley more accessable, but still allows him to get away from the dogs if he feels like it.  here comes the fun part!  he's peeing!  everywhere.  he's still using his litterbox to both pee and poop on a regular basis, but lately he's peed in my sister's room, our kitchen floor and next to our front door. all those places and more than once each.  he's totally cool with our friends and he has never ever gotten visibly upset with anyone because he's a very calm and patient cat, so i have no reason to believe he has a problem with them? it's possible it's because we moved his litterbox, but we've done that before and although he acted the same way, his behavior didn't last this long?  i've grown up loving cats, volunteering at the humane society, had multiple friends who have fostered cats and i've babysat them, so i'd like to believe i'm pretty knowledgable about felines. but, i just feel like something is wrong?  i've gone over all of the possible causes in my head, multiple times, and i keep feeling like i'm missing something? am i forgetting a possibility? do i need to take him to the vet??  please help me. :,(  
 i would definitely suggest a vet visit to determine if this is behavioral or physical. i have a male cat prone to utis and the first signs are he pees in the litter box and outside the litter box. almost in places i will surely notice like he’s trying to tell me something is wrong. i am no expert but the tip-off for me this is likely physical is he’s peeing on the floor and not spraying on things. mine doesn’t get them much anymore (i started a urinary specific diet) but usually a seven day round of antibiotics does the trick. take him to see the doc, even if it isn’t physical, that way you can rule out something more sinister and serious like a blockage etc. good luck!   
 hi. i agree with @luxbear, take him to the vet and see if they find a uti. peeing outside the litter box is a very typical sign of a urinary tract infection. and, for male cats, it can become a bigger issue because their urethra's are smaller than females, better enabling a blockage by crystals/stones.   in my experience, but not necessarily in all cases i am sure, a cat with either go right outside the litter box with an infection, or they can pee in multiple locations. with a more behavioral issue they tend to find a location or two outside the box and pee there consistently. (nonetheless, hope you have a good enzymatic cleaner to use on the areas where is he peeing.)  if he has done this before when his litter box was moved, but then went back a short while later to using his box appropriately - then, in this case, he might have caused the infection by avoiding the box altogether and holding his pee for too long. repeated bouts of this can also cause an infection.   if it is not an infection, then he might just be getting older and taking longer to adjust to changes than he has done in the past. not to mention that he has lost his preferred 'safety zone'.  
 after the vet check, --you're right, you want to take into account the fact that you've closed off an area that was totally his, along with moving his litterbox off somewhere else.  try adding another litterbox or two, and you could also try a litter called cat attract   he may need a calming product for a bit because even though he's calm outwardly, big abupt changes cause stress. some cats even react badly when something as relatively simple as a new piece of furniture is brought in.  a couple of cleaners would be nature's miracle, or the equalizer.  hang in there, let us know how things go   
 even if he is fine with your friends, it's the change in his routine that can cause the stress. if the vet clears him for medical issues, you might try calming treats or feliway diffusers.  
 hi everyone, obviously i am new here. i'm hoping that someone can offer me some reassurance and advice. i apologize in advance for the length of this post.  i adopted a kitty yesterday, a sweet 7 year old little girl named emmie.   a little background. before emmie i only have ever had one other kitty in my life. my sweet callie, who i had from 3 months old until she passed away at 17 years old in 2015. i have taken a long time to grieve and contemplate whether i wanted to adopt again. i finally felt i was ready, especially when i saw the post about emmie. she had been in the shelter for the last 11 months. she belonged to an elderly lady who had to go to a nursing home and had to surrender her. no one was adopting her because she needs to be an only kitty as she does not like other cats.   when i went to meet her yesterday she was very friendly but stressed from being in a small room with other cats who kept meowing at her. i decided she was the one and brought her home. i live alone, my apartment is quiet and peaceful, and i don't have any other pets or children.   when we got home, i let her out of her carrier and put out food, water, toys, and a litterbox. i spoke softly to her and let her explore on her own terms and am not trying to force interactions. every hour or so i would go look for her and just say hello and few words about being a sweet girl. she spent most of the day in my bedroom on the edge of my bed, followed by coming out to take a walk round the apartment and see what was going on and then returning to my bedroom. when i went to bed last night she left the bedroom and spent the night in the living room. i'm not sure if she slept or not. she has eaten, and she is drinking very well. she peed at least once and had a poo also. i think these are all good things and good signs?   the trouble comes with her interactions with me (and i 100% admit that i am currently an anxious basket case who has spent since yesterday crying off and on; i had to take a sedative yesterday). i feel like she hates me and like i made a mistake and should take her back. and i feel terrible and guilt ridden at the thought. i'm not that type of person. i am having a lot of fears as to whether i will be able to love her like i did callie, fears about what if something happens and she gets sick, what if she never likes me and is miserable here.   i assume this is transferring through to when i do talk to her because she ran up to me last night and gave me a face to face head butt and then followed that with slapping me with her paw and walking away.   i did pick her up once to put her on the floor after she got on the stove counter. it made her mad and she turned around and and batted at me.   this morning before i left for work i put the window shade up for her so she can enjoy looking out the window and she tried to grab my arm and bite me and hissed.   am i just freaking out and i need to take some deep breaths? i keep trying to tell myself that a relationship isn't build in one day. i just feel overwhelmed with responsibility and anxiety.  
 thank y'all so much. it really helps. i found a thread about anxiety and pet adoption that has helped settle me a bit also.  
  welcome to tcs! i am glad that you found us here and that you found a helpful thread.  your poor kitty - 11 months in the shelter is a long time. she must have had so many experiences, both good and bad. volunteers whom she adored and those whose actions displeased her. and at the end of the day, she was left behind, day after day, alone in a cage, night after night. once she realizes the routine of having you all to herself, she will be able to let down her guard and have the courage to love again. prayers and vibes that it all clicks in soon!   
 it just takes time for them to settle in. four days for an adult cat is great. don't worry if there is a little backsliding as you both adjust to each other, its just part of getting to know each other.   
 any, well, you know how much we love's "pitchers"?  pops  btw, kind of late but,   
 so fostering 3 kittens. they mostly stay in a puppy pen with a blanket clipped to the top in the living room. (or they sleep in the bunny cage those few hours i sleep.) 1 of the kittens will be staying and the other 2 will be adopted.   so one of my cats finally is brave enough to sniff them, one growls and hisses... while keeping his distance & finally the third semi-feral tracks them like prey . i know when they get bigger she will be in my mom's room, so that will be her territory. slow introductions are not an option because the wee terrors are 6 weeks old. they can get into everything. i have pulled a kitten out of the couch before.   so is there anything i can do to help my boys accept the little minions? the babies could use big cat lessons once they get vaccinated. anything to help form a good relationship with the adopted kitten and the resident cats?  
 i’m fostering a kitten, and i put her with my bigger cat and just let them cope. now they’ve figured everything out and they are fine.(this may not work i’m no cat specialist)  
 hello! thanks for all this information! they don't have diarrhea anymore, and they do use the boxes, it's just like they think it's optional. and there's a box upstairs too, so where ever they are there is one close by. i will look into that cat attract litter! thanks! have a great day or night    
 he was definitely curious after i changed his litter. the online world really scares me because they saying chilling out int he litter box means two things illness and stress of new environment and i know its not stress.   
 is switched back to his old food that they've been feeding him for months with no issue. he still have the diarreah after that for 4 days. but at times il find a normal piece in there  
 >if at all possible, can you feed more canned food?  sure, that's not a problem at all. she currently gets about half a (small) can of wet per day in the evening. the bladder kibble is out all day for them to graze on.  :edited to add, she gets half a small can of wet per day *right now* because we are also feeding the kitten as much wet food as he'll eat. when we don't have a kitten that is growing, she gets about half a can of wet once or twice a week.   
 hello! i apologize for this being a long thread, but this is our first kitten without our parents' help and as she gets older she's showing more problems! he works from 7-5 everyday and i'm a full-time, student at a military institute so she is home alone for the majority of the day, but she also gets to interact with my mom's cats some weekends.  problem one: so, my boyfriend and i got a kitten from our local shelter about 2 months ago (she's about 5 months old now) and she took to using her litter box instantly! but lately my boyfriend has noticed that she poops when he's in the same room as the litter box, but when she steps out of the litter box she still has poop hanging from her tail and she likes to run around the apartment leaving little poop marks all of the carpet. she still does her business in the litter box... just not all of it. we originally thought she had worms because she would drag her butt on the carpet after pooping, but when i came home one weekend from school she pooped and i noticed something hanging out of her bottom and i pulled it out and found it was part of a zip-tie! after that she didn't drag her butt anymore but still had incomplete poops. what could be the culprit? what should we do??  problem two: when examining bonnie's (our kitten) poop, my boyfriend has noticed that she is ingesting a large amount of his hair. he's confused as to where she is getting it from, because when he combs his hair in the morning he puts the hair from the brush in the toilet and flushes it. why is she eating his hair? i feel it's because he works such long hours and she's alone a lot of the day. could this become harmful behavior? how can we stop it?  problem three: my boyfriend has always played rough with bonnie, but never to the extent of hurting her. she's full of energy, loves to climb on things, push things over, etc. but lately my boyfriend has been noticing that she's acting out a lot more. doing things to get attention (clawing up toilet paper, climbing on counters and clawing up the paper towel, biting and scratching him harder, etc.) and he wants to figure out why she's starting to act out. is it a phase? is it because she's lonely and just happy he's finally home (my theory)? what can we (mostly him) do to mitigate this even though we aren't home to immediately correct things?  we would never giver her up because of these issues, but we just want to make sure she's as healthy and as happy as she can be! thank you so much for reading and i hope to get some help!  
 so, the clawing paper towels and toilet paper, biting and jumping on the counter isn’t acting out or seeking attention. it is kitten behavior that you see in pretty much all kittens. you need to either put away these products or keep keep doors shut so the kitten can’t get at them. and you can teach her to stay off of counters by not leaving things out and putting her down every time she climbs up. you will need to do this dozens and dozens of times before she catches on.  as far as the poop situation she may have something she has eaten that she still hasn’t passed. i would have a vet check that out.  
 hi! i didn't mention it in my post above, but i was wondering what you meant by incomplete poops?    susanm9006 said: ↑  as far as the poop situation she may have something she has eaten that she still hasn’t passed. i would have a vet check that out.click to expand...  is she spayed? even if she's just been in to the vet, you don't have any way of knowing whether all of the ziptie actually was passed - oh, and by the way, don't pull anything out next time - you could do more damage than good, ...and i also am suggesting you get her in to the vet.    furballsmom said: ↑  shave her behind so she doesn't have dingleberriesclick to expand...   as i mentioned above, if she's a long-haired cat and has sticky poop like my boy gets sometimes, a hygiene trim helps a lot.  are you feeding her wet and kibble, small frequent meals and as much as she'll consume?   
 my boyfriend says she will go to the litter box, do her business, jump out with poop hanging out and just leave poop spots around the house. she is spayed, i am calling the vet tomorrow when they are open, and she is fed a medium can of wet food before my boyfriend goes to work and a small can when he gets home from work.   
 cats, like people, can vary in their response to gabapentin. it does relax many cats and can even cause drowsiness (just like it does in humans), but some may not respond to it as strongly as others. maybe give your vet a call and let them know? i don't know much about dosing gabapentin in cats, but perhaps your vet could adjust the dose, or maybe try a different medication.  
 that's interesting. i don't think i remember the vet talking about having to wait a week. i did leave a message for the vet this morning. i'm curious to see what she'll say.  
 a little over a month ago i moved. i live in a 2 story home that was converted into 2 apartments - i was on the top floor, now am on the bottom. since moving my two normally very peaceful loving boys have had 2 death matches. yes, i know the difference between a play fight and a death match. play fights do not involved hissing (until one wants to say "i'm done" and the other respects it), no growling, no screaming, very little fur raising, and never have they drawn blood.  i suspect the reason for this is because nom, the one in my avatar, is especially nervous after the move. he's normally a clingy cat compared to rawrz, but he's even clingier now. he will randomly poof his fur for what seems to me to be no reason. he's also constantly looking around and acting as though he expects something to jump out and get him. well, one night his brother did just that, and it sparked the first death match. i was terrified thinking they were going to kill each other. i've only heard outdoor cats do that prior and it was to cause severe injury to rivals, not just warn them to back off. rawrz did sustain a bit of injury on his neck that i found days later, but luckily nothing major. a full 12+ hours away from each other and using play and food bonding got them to like each other again by the next evening and they were right back to cuddling on their kitty tower.  this time i have no idea what sparked it. i was woken up at 4:29pm (i work nights, so it's actually early for me to get up then) by the screaming and had to intervene. i tried to go back to sleep, but i was so worked up that i couldn't. 3.5hrs later was their supper time, so i tried food bonding and it went ok... until i stepped away to refill their water. the growling and hissing started up, so i closed the door i had between them. or i thought i had. while i went back to refilling the water the door had opened and nom went after rawrz again. i had to intervene again by grabbing nom, this time getting redirected at (no injury), but i didn't want them to get hurt so i had to risk it. bonding failed, so they're spending a night apart again. this time nom got a piece of claw stuck in his nose and i had to pull it out. shows just how real this is - they mean to hurt each other.  i'm really worried now that even if i get them to bond again, there will be a death match while i'm at work and can't stop it. i live alone and have no family close by to watch them at night, and even if i got a camera to watch them myself from work there would be no one to stop the fight. leaving work isn't an option, even for emergencies.  as for rawrz, he's taking very well to the new place. he doesn't act nervous like nom does. it takes something big to even make him look like he heard it, the little noises don't bother him like they bother nom. he doesn't go after nom during these fights either, he only tries to get away and when cornered will defend himself. the first time he scared nom it was purely an accident, but nom didn't see it that way.  what can i do to help nom be less nervous to hopefully stop more fights from happening? two major reasons i think he's so nervous: 1. new environment, pretty obvious. we lived in that apartment for 3 years and they're only about 3 and a half, so most of their life by far was spent there. they're basically feral, they only know me and each other, and nom especially hates when my family comes over, but rawrz is getting used to my mom at least. now that we're on the bottom floor they see and hear the neighbor and her friends come and go all the time and nom is obviously nervous just hearing someone. 2. the apartment used to be occupied by 3 other cats. apparently, one or all of them were not properly litterbox trained and the basement reeks of cat urine. i'm sure both of my boys smell the scent of those 3 all over the house, so i'm thinking that has something to do with it too - like nom sort of expects the owners of the scents to come get him and maybe even is confusing his brother for one of them.  
 hi!  yes, you're exactly right, nom is smelling those other cats' pee. --there may also be cats roaming around outside.  here are my thoughts; obtain a good black light so you can see all the urine spots and clean the heck out of them, there's an enzymatic cleaner that doesn't require soaking called the equalizer.  i would not suggest feliway in this case, when a cat is really upset it can have the opposite effect and make things worse. there are other calming products available if you're interested, treats, collars, sprays.  start playing low volume classical harp music, it's known to help relax cats. there's an app too, relax my cat and musicforcats.com  also try chamomile tea, from @mamanyt1953  use commercial tea bags from your local grocer's coffee/tea aisle to be sure you are using only german chamomile. brew a cup, chill it in the fridge, and administer 1-3 teaspoonfuls up to 3 times a day, via syringe. the tea will keep for up to three days in the fridge.   if you haven't syringed before, place the tip of the syringe between the gum and the cheek and slowly inject, allowing time to swallow.  
 i've done this before and it works.  if you use liquid laundry detergent, check the ingredients. most liquid detergents, especially those for he and "wash in cold water", contain enzymes to help break down biological matter (our skin cells and oils and such). it will be a pain in the rear end and take some time but here is what you do. dilute the laundry detergent to half with water, so it's still a good concentration but not so thick. get a good amount on the areas, then get a scrub brush and get to it.  after scrubbing, let it soak into the cement for a while. cement is porous so you really want to let it get in there to get to the old urine stains. after a while, go check on it and re wet with your diluted mix if necessary, and re scrub, get it all sudsy again, and let it soak some more. then the process of cleaning up the suds.  it takes a while, because every time you rinse and wipe more bubbles keep forming. i did this in my laundry room and it worked wonders, you couldn't even see the darker stains in the grout lines anymore.  but you need to keep your cats out of the area completely, you do not want them to step in this high concentration of detergent and ingest it when they clean themselves.  and a bottle of laundry detergent, that can be diluted is much cheaper than the enzyme cleaners. but as i said......a total pain in the butt to clean up, so make sure you have the time and patience.    you can use this to clean other surfaces other than cement, but only as long as it does not ruin them, depending on how long you need to let it soak in.  
 this is fabulous, good for you!!  
 do they do this everytime one has to go to the vet or do you usually take all 3 together for their yearly checkups? time is what they need. i will use a little pure vanilla extract on each of them to help them smell alike.  are they literally just hissing and growling or are they full on attacking each other? hissing and growling are no big deal, just shows they are letting the other know they are aware of their presence and warning them to keep their distance.   i think you should just let them work it out. but most people don't have the patience or get too stressed out over this, which the cats can react to on top of everything else. you could try some feliway plug ins and sprays.  
 it will all work itself out. this happened to two of mine as well, unfortunately the one who was the "stay home" cat also had anxiety problems and it took almost 2 months for him to accept the "vet cat" back. the "vet cat" was also on medications for quite some time, and that also changes their smell.  and try not to stress about this. they will sense how you feel, that you're upset with the situation, and can misinterpret your feelings of upset and worry as "look! mom's scared. omg! there is something we need to be scared of!, hissss, grrr, get away from me!"   as i said, it should get better soon, just keep calm, try not to be on edge when you are around them. and keep doing the scent swapping and give treats when they are in the same room as each other, and so on.   
  that is very common, and happens often when one cat returns from the vet smelling differently. it's called non-recognition aggression. tcs has an article with more info: how to deal with non-recognition aggression in cats  
 any change in behavior?  
 hi all, we have a 5 month old adorable little kitty named pepper. we adopted him at 8 weeks old and from day 1 he’s been completely obsessed with the litter box! he plays in it, digs in it, tosses the litter out on the floor in excessive amounts, rolls in it, and will even lay down in the litter box for a nap unless i shoo him out!   i assumed this was just a phase he would grow out of and i’ve tried to wait it out, but it’s been happening since the day we brought him home, and it’s only gotten worse 3 months later. i got a litter mat to put under the litter box to reduce the litter being tracked all through the house and it has helped some, but he still makes a huge mess. even if i change the litter box and vacuum up all the spilled litter in the evening, by the next morning there are usually huge piles of litter all over the floor again (and sometimes other things get tossed out on the floor along with the litter - yuck!). we love pepper to pieces, but i’m getting frustrated with this behavior and my husband is getting really fed up as well.  any thoughts on how i can stop pepper’s litter box obsession? is it still possible this is something he’ll grow out of, even though it’s been going on for some time? any ideas for temporary solutions to avoid the constant mess? some articles i’ve read have suggested getting a closed litter box, but others say closed litter boxes are bad. thoughts? thanks in advance for any advice/insight!  
 hello my friends my little ginger is doing just fine. actually to watch her you would never know she had surgery two days ago. she was so cute when i picked her up. when the young lady brought her out and she was still about twenty feet away i said "theres my little gin gin" and she let out the loudest meow. guess she was happy to see me. here are a couple snappies. her incision and stitches look great. this vet here is the best. i just love my little kitty. well she's not so little anymore. they grow up too fast. have a great day.    
 hello all,   my name is kayla. i’m new to this site because i’m having some troubles with my cats recently.   some background:  i have 4 cats, all rescues, all spayed. two are sisters, sniggles and piglet. they are roughly 11 years old.   another female named smokey was feral as a kitten, and we took her in. she’s the one being attacked. very sweet, harmless and gentle demeanor. can touch her if you need to catch her for a vet visit, for example, but she’d prefer if you didn’t touch. comes up to us and let’s out cute cries for attention but we don’t touch her, as she’s skiddish. we let her climb on our lap on her own terms but we never pet because she’ll run. another, the problem child, is my boyfriend’s male cat, named lucky. formerly an outdoor cat, he’s very rambunctious. likes to hunt. is now an indoor cat. we also have two dogs which don’t bother with the cats whatsoever but he doesn’t like dogs, so he avoids the living room where they lounge (possible stressor for him).   smokey likes to play with the two other female cats. lucky came last to our little family, and has grown to be ok with the two older females. but all he has to do is see smokey and he chases her until he gets ahold of her. we try to stop him but he doesn’t even care about us, he just wants to get her. he has ripped chunks out of her back fur. he stalks her, and now she hides constantly. it’s a shame because we’ve come so far with making her feel comfortable. we’ve tried locking him up at night, having them play together. but he just sees it as an opportunity to attack, it seems. he’ll play all day, and we try to keep him active to release energy. he just seems to hate her. she does nothing to taunt him, she just walks around and tries to cuddle with the other cats. he won’t allow that.   the cats have plenty of vertical/climbable posts and toys. we open windows for them, and have a pretty relaxed household otherwise.  any suggestions? any help is greatly appreciated.  
 this is kinda out there, but occasionally rubbing both cats with real vanilla can work wonders. it either does the trick or does nothing at all.  
 okay... so, my cat just won't eat her regular food very much. she goes nuts for treats, and i've bought other flavors that she gobbles up. she'll eat her regular food, just not that much and only when she's really hungry. i get it, she's sick of her food. i have 4 flavors that i switch up every day. thing is, i can't afford to buy her tons of different flavors all the time. is there a way to keep her happy without having to do that?  
 sometimes our cat uses the litter box fine, but sometimes he goes on the wood floor next to the litter box. we had to put these soaking pads down just in case, but even still, now he'll just go on the pads sometimes.  how can we get the cat to start using the litter box again?  
 start with the vet. it could be literally anything including possibly nothing to do with the litter box. for my krista, she was peeing outside the box because her teeth were hurting. when we addressed her teeth, the inappropriate elimination behavior stopped. it was a cry for help. your kitten could be in pain from one thing or another. rule out medical reasons before you look to behavioral fixes.  
 have you considered nail caps?  the problem with spray bottles is that they don't bother some cats, and also if they aren't immediately handy the link to the behavior isn't as strong. i think they work better to say defend the food prep counter, because you can leave the bottle right there. so most here recommend a loud noise, such as "no!" for biting or pouncing. loud enough to startle.   if people are really being hurt and a really loud no isn't working, you might need to consider stronger measures. big cats hold down small cats when they are being a pita, that might work. however, very tricky not to hurt them while not letting them squirm and get away or attack you.  
 is getting a second cat an option? it doesn't have to be the same breed. any cat from a shelter is fine. some super hyper cats need a buddy to play with otherwise they get bored and have nothing to do with all their pent up energy.  
 so sorry that happened. i'm glad, though, that you didn't get bit or scratched in the process is getting him back outside.  as for the odor, maybe try an enzyme cleaner?  
 an enzyme cleaner like nature's miracle should work. what is going to happen to the feral cat? can you help him?  
 queen bee let her anal glands go on my shirt a month or two ago. the smell is like a rotting dead fish left in the sun for 3 months then doused with skunk stink. it's awful. and when a cat or dog panics to the point of being sure their life is over, those glands release so this is probably the smell. yep, air the house out. and join me in being glad i've now found a friend in the world that knows what it's like to have a feral cat running around your house.  (to compare, anything rodeo related is borderline sissy stuff. )   
 you might have to remove the carpet, or at least that section of it. the urine has doubtless soaked into the floor.  
 i thought of that but it probably wouldn't be good for the carpet. instead of the odor they'd have a big red stain! .   crackers! said: ↑  you might have to remove the carpet, or at least that section of it. the urine has doubtless soaked into the floor.click to expand...  the op didn't say the cat urinated so i'm not sure of that. but yeah, tomcat pee is strong so if he did urinate it might take some stronger measures. in that case i think the extraction cleaner would be best, or a professional cleaning.   
 folks, thank you so much for all your suggestions. it was very kind of y'all to take the time to share your wisdom. i now find that the smell is also all over my desk, my pc, my books and assorted paperwork, so sorting this mess out could take a while and require most of the methods you suggest. i'm guessing that the stink was sprayed out of the cat's rear end before, during and after the ejection of the poop itself, so most of the surfaces were struck invisibly with no poop to indicate where it hit. sadly i own no stink-vision goggles, so will have to treat every surface in the area just in case.  i'd previously discovered the magical power of tomato juice after my own cat came indoors plastered in fox poop last year; i scoured the web for advice and learned of its effectiveness against skunk stink, so tried it on the fox stink and it worked a treat. now that you've reminded me of its powers, i'll try using it on my desk, books, pc etc. thanks for that.  in the past, i'd always found that the 100% reliable method of neutralizing the smell of tomcat spray was to mix one part white vinegar with three parts water then apply it with a handspray - but it has no effect at all in this instance. i'll try the baking soda method on the carpet and maybe the enzyme cleaner too if it's not entirely successful on its own.  thanks for giving me hope.  as for the cat himself, he's a major problem. he's torn our local cat community apart since his arrival in the neighborhood, by viciously attacking every single cat he sees - male, female, young, old - over and over again, so that he's effectively dispersed all the cats and claimed all their territories as his own. my own cat now only ventures out at night (very cautiously), likewise the cat from two doors down. most of the other cats have never been seen again, so i guess they've been so traumatised that they now stay indoors. the feral tom is so very wary that i suspect he'd avoid a humane trap altogether; i was amazed he came into my home and can only imagine he was looking to attack my cat, having watched him coming in through the living room window. i'm sincerely hoping fate takes a hand somehow in sorting this situation out.  thanks again for your help and advice.  
 if there was some way to get him neutered, i bet that would solve things. it sounds like he peed or sprayed when he pooped, that would explain the god awful stench, i know that smell.   
 have you tried nature's miracle? it always works for me to get nasty smells out.  
 do you think you might have missed a spot? i can't imagine that the treated areas would still smell that bad.   it might be time for a professional cleaning. tell them to bring their pet odor remover products.  
 hello and welcome to tcs. what a pretty cat. sorry she has aggressive behaviour toward you.   until some other members reply with suggestions, here are some tcs articles that might be helpful:  cat aggression toward people re-directed aggression in cats  is your cat stressed out? you, your cat and stress potential stressors in cats - the ultimate checklist six surefire strategies to reduce stress in cats  do cats get jealous? (and what to do about it when they do)  14 cat experts reveal: how to get a cat to like me  
 ok...here is a guess, and just a guess. i'm thinking that you have been visiting the old apartment for some time before the kitten was adopted. she moved in, and your scent was already present...when you got there, you smelled like home to her. now, since the move, you're scent didn't move with you. she set up her territory, and your scent was no part of it. in her eyes, you've become an interloper, and just might take resources she need for herself and any possible kittens (even if spayed, that instinct remains). i'm also thinking that she may be just generally under-socialized. does your boyfriend have guests over often, and if so, how does the cat relate to them? are we talking undersocialized and territorial, or just plain jealous? that's what i'm trying to figure out.  here's a thought...next time you visit, take a couple of cheap tee shirts with you and wear them often while there, or take several well-worn and unwashed tee shirts with you. cut them into squares, about 12-12 inches, and tuck them in unseen places around the apartment. that will permeate the entire apartment with your scent, and as she adjusts to that, whether you are there or not there, your scent comes to also mean "home" to her.  
 sounds like an odd form of redirected aggression... as a short term solution when this happens you could try flipping one of those plastic laundry baskets (the square ones with holes in the side) over her for about 15 minutes as a "time out" to help calm her down. without knowing what is triggering the behaviour though it is hard to know how to approach the situation.  
 i had a cat that was very bonded with me. when i'd go away she'd get very nervous. we made a recording of my voice that my partner would play for her a few times a day. it helped.  since the attacks are happening when she can't see your partner i wonder if it has more to do with that than you. you were there when she was young -- you keep leaving --- she can't see her main human -- smells the smell of leaving -- you get attacked. try making a recording and have it ready to play when she starts to get nervous. if it works give her a treat and encouragement.  
 fortunately we live in a large apartment complex and so when my partner goes out i now go out too so maya has lots of time to herself during the day and now minimal time alone with me. we are working on me slowly coming home for an hour or so alone to try and reintroduce myself but this is as much for me as it is for her.  i have been able to shut myself in the bedroom to keep us apart but this isn't perfect as i have to leave the bedroom to go to the bathroom.  unfortunately i always seem to have shorts and no socks on when the attacks kicks off and she immediately goes for my legs! i try talking to her but with each swipe she makes i take 1 step back, she takes 1 step forward and we repeat, it's a slow movement. i have now stuck to wearing jeans, socks, long sleeves and even shoes as much as possible around her. you can imagine what fun that is when its 30+ degrees outside! if i'm able to reach a toy or a cushion i have thrown it to distract her for a few seconds but she always comes back hissing, my partner is sometimes able to diffuse her attacks by playing with a wand toy but generally speaking maya is not as interested in playing with me.   is there a particular body language or something i should do to stand my ground? to be honest i don't think i have the confidence to be able to do it now but you never know. currently when she starts hissing and swiping i try to talk to her by repeating her name calmly in a high sort of pitch. is this correct? my understanding is that if i shout, make a lot of movement or speak in a low pitch this is likely to be interpretted as an attack and make her worse?   i hadn't thought of recording my partners voice, i'll give this a try when she's in a happy mood and see if she responds to it.   i think the point about the clothes might be right too the attacks do all occur before i've washed any of my clothes here, when i'm still wearing things i washed at home. during this trip i have actually found myself feeling more nervous wearing the things i washed at my place, she goes to sniff them and it makes me nervous. by this point (i'm in week 3 now, last attack was start of week 2) everything has now been washed here with the same detergent my partner uses and she doesn't seem as interested in sniffing everything. i think going forward i might just bring unwashed clothes and wash them all here...partner will love that...   thank you once again for all the input, apologies for the delay in responding   
 well we made it to week 4 without an incident since week 2 so i guess that's progress. we used the feliway plugin, still not certain it's making a difference but on the other hand we've gone 2 weeks without a major issue so maybe it is helping.   i like to think perhaps something in the future will end this behaviour for good. as for now i return to the uk tomorrow, i think i'll be returning again around christmas ready to try washing all the clothes and following the other advice to see if we can have a happier and less hissy visit. hopefully we somehow manage to get on top of this, otherwise i may be back posting again in december!  thank you all again, oh and here is a final photo to end this post: maya sharing her scent with the clothes.     
 i’m glad things have improved. maya is beautiful.   we’re here for you anytime! travel safely.   
 my new 4-month old kitten only wants to cuddle. i love that she's so affectionate and cuddly, but i wish she would play sometimes. i've gotten her so many toys, scratching posts, and scratching mats and she's uninterested in all of it. the most she does is watch the toy, but she never gets excited enough to actually jump on the toy or anything like that. i tried catnip too which seems to have no affect on her laid back personality. any advice on how to get her to play? she was also recently spayed, so i'm wondering if her laziness is because of the surgery. thanks!  
 hello and welcome to tcs. and congrats on the new cuddle-bug.    how long have you had her? was she perhaps adopted out very young, and didn't have a chance to learn to play?  all cats have the instinct to hunt, and as playing is a type of hunting, i think you just need to try different types of toys till you find one she likes.  here's an article that might be helpful: playing with your cat: 10 things you need to know  plus: 7 proven ways to get your cat to be more active  
 hello gang,  my first (human) child is due in a month. we’ve put the bassinet in our bedroom and made it a kitty free zone at night to prepare for the new arrival. so far it’s not going well.  one of our cats stealthily peed in the dog bed in the bedroom one morning when the litter robot was stuck mid-cycle and he didn’t have access to the litter box. we replaced the dog bed and he peed in the brand new one a few days later. then we washed the new bed and he peed in it a third time, plus the wall, plus the shutters on the window, and the bed isn’t super absorbent so he stomped in the puddle and tracked pee paw prints all across the tiled house.  both cats went to the vet today to rule out illness. the peeing isn’t a medical problem. there is no inappropriate urination anywhere else in the house. the vet said it’s either a super-strong attraction to the pheromones that i can’t seem to thoroughly clean, or someone is mad that their prior hangout is off limits and they’re doing it out of spite. since they’ve come home from the vet today there’s been a lot of hissing at each other. god help me when the baby actually gets here.  the vet recommended feliway. does it work? do i need the classic, or multicat, or both? what else can i do to ease the transition to a new family dynamic?  
 those litter robot things are known to get stuck in a cycle can you keep a regular litter box available so the cats have something to use in case the litter robot is stuck? sweet talk the husband / partner to clean the litter box for you  
 i can't answer your question about gabapentin for this purpose because i've never used it, but it does strike me as an odd choice of medication.  gabapentin is usually prescribed for seizures and/or pain.  do you know why the vet didn't go with one of the usual anti-anxiety medications like valium, ativan or xanax?  i'm not a vet, but it would seem to me that using one of these benzodiazepines would also be more likely to work on both cats than using a medication that isn't typically used for reducing anxiety.  your vet probably has a good reason, but it wouldn't hurt to ask about the benzodiazepines.   another possible option, since this is just for a check-up and injection, is to call a mobile vet.  i was very pleased the one time i used one and it made a big difference in my cat's stress levels.  
 i agree that it seems like an odd choice to me as well. i take gabapentin for nerve pain and while its action on nerves is to calm them down (thus soothing nerve pain) it's uptake, in humans at least, is slow so the effects are not felt like 5 or 6 hours later and results aren't achieved until a few weeks after a certian level is built up in the blood. maybe it's effects are different in animals? i too would think a quicker acting agent like a benzo would be the way to go...but i'm not a vet! like your fur babies, my girl really has a hard time at the vet. they have to keep her in the bottom half of her crate and only do the minimum of an exam in order to keep her a calm as possible. i really love my vet but have been considering switching to a mobile vet as margd has mentioned...thankfully, there are a number of options in my area for that . i figured miss k. is going to be happier and i will be less stressed too...win-win!  good luck with the vet visit...i hope it goes smoothly!  
 well, this visit went much better than last time.  shiva our younger girl did very well on the medication.  it made a really big difference with her.  i was able to actually trim her nails before the visit by myself with no help which would never happen.  she was very easy to handle during the visit with no hissing at all.  she did poop a bit but other than that, she was very calm.  the vet was very happy with the dosage for her & we will be sticking with that from now on. elsbett did not do as well.  she was somewhat calmer than last year, but still a handful.  they were able to do a full exam on her but she was hissing and growling and tried to jump away from them twice.  no blood this time though.  the vet went with a lower dose on her this 1st time to see how she would react as she is a big cat & somewhat overweight (she is 17 lbs).  she feels that with a higher dose the next visit could be better for her as we both did notice a difference.  the effects of the medication did last into the evening & i noticed both of the girls were more relaxed especially shiva who tends to be more high strung.  only downside we saw was the next day when my husband & i got home from work, he said the house smelled like an old fart.  lol.  when he went to change the littler box the odor coming out of it was horrible.  if that's the only downside to them taking it to make them less stressed, i think we can handle that the few times we have to take them to the vet!  good news both girls got a clean bill of health other than them wanting elsbett to loose weight of course but they are happy she did not gain any & she lost .2 lbs.  
 thank you for telling us about this.  i had never heard of gabapentin being used this way and it's great to learn of another medication that can help calm down nervous cats at the vet. also,wonderful news that both shiva and elsbett are healthy girls.      
 just following up on this thread. my cat is 18 lbs and last time i gave him 100 mg of gabapentin. frustratingly it didn't work at all and my cat came home bloodied. my new vet wants me to try 200 mg and does not think the dose was high enough. he suggested me trying a 200 mg dose on a day i am home and see what happens. if my cat doesn't seem to be suffering to much from axieta or balance issues they would like me to try giving him a dose the night before. then again the day of the appointment.  
 hi! i have read that people have had good results, hopefully someone will weigh in for you. this was just posted here, it doesn't go into feline behavior, but it's still an interesting read; cbd oil for pets article  
 1-bedroom apartments can be tough to give each cat enough territory. do you have high shelves and places where they can climb and feel confident? that helps us a lot on a two cat household when we were in a 1-bedroom.  
 if my punk gets his afternoon outside time he is so much calmer and doesn't bully my other cat (he is still possessive and can be jerkish but he doesn't treat my other cat like a living play thing to jump on and bite.) granted lately his outside time has been watching the birds from my lap as i sit inside by the open sliding glass window (he is 12 and finally getting lazy!) if you have a balcony you can hang a bird feeder there and then put a cat tree or chair by the window so they can watch "cat tv." my boys love my newly installed 20 inch extra wide windowsill in my room. they love it so much i usually leave the window open (with a screen) so they can smell everything.    one house, 4 roommates, my 2 cats, 1 outdoor/indoor semi feral and there also used to be a senior cat and senior dog. so i get not having lots of space. i catifed my room and might catify it more. i joke it is the cat room since the third cat hangs out a lot in my room. your one bedroom apartment can work. a studio apartment could work to. if you have a studio you could lock him in the bathroom for a half hour and play with her. then just make sure when you let him out you play with him. you can place a litter box in the living room and another litter box in your room. same thing with food or puzzle feeders. your boy is still growing until he is around 2 years old... so kitten food might help him feel less need to guard the food.     
 is there anything i can do at this point to help the situation?   
 a 12 week old kitten hissing or growling when it is being held when it wants to get down is pretty normal. the best way to establish a good relationship and have a calm and friendly cat is to respect their boundaries and what they are telling you. so if the kitten is acting like it wants to get down, just let it go and don’t pick it up when it would rather be playing. instead cuddle the kitten when it is sleepy or when it comes to you.   and she had only been with you a short while and even young kittens can get nervous and skittish in a strange place. she may be hissing or growling at you or your cat because she is still fearful of both.  
 there's another recent post from a similar situation with more links here: my cat is depressed  good luck!  
 i thought this article which gives feeding tips for your cat(s) might be helpful especially dealing with gulpers/fast eaters:  18 awesome cat feeding tips by thecatsite staff members hope this helps!   
 thank you for your tips. the 18 awesome cat feeding tips were insightful! my first attempt to slow him down will be spreading the food on a plate so he will be forced to lick it rather than gulp it.  
  hi furballsmom, thank you for the links. yes, everyone is spayed/neutered. i do have some feliway and did just order more, so i will look into the source. also, i do have some music for cats, so i will give that a try.   
    
 thank you for the response! he is neutered. i’m in a real dilemma in dealing with stress because our house is for sale which compounds the need to get this eliminated. can’t sell a house that smells like a cat box! we have two cats and have had up to 6 boxes all over to try to help this. we’ve reduced it to 4. we’ve tried to confine him and he screams 24/2 and destroys things with teeth (declawed in front) . we’ve tried ezamstic cleaners, diffusers, i ordered the special litter. i really think it’s part stress or maybe ocd and also territorial. i’ve caught him trying to mount his brother several times, he’s always bellowing too and while they mostly play fight there has now been several times it’s escalated to our other cat bleeding.  like i said he licks his hair off his belly and eats odd things. so far today i’ve pulled a shoe lace out of his throat and caught him in my daughters room peeing inside her overnight bag that is up on a dresser. it usually occurs on our first floor but has been everywhere down there. that said he’s done it multiple times, including just minutes ago, upstairs. he pees in shoes, on books, he gets on kids desks and pees on their homework. i’m literally at my wits end!      
 the declawing may be a huge part of this behavior. since declawing is partial amputation, it can cause a lot of pain initially while healing (and cause litter to be painful to the paw) and also arthritis later in life which may lead to him associating the litter box with that pain. trin is also declawed, and i wonder if some of his issues stem from that.  we haven’t been super successful with this ourselves, but have you tried softer litters like yesterday’s news rather than clay? something that might be softer on his paws. or maybe even a puppy pee pad inside the litterbox with no litter.  
 because he is de-clawed, he may have arthritis in his front end that makes it painful to use the litterbox. oddly, cats like that often use the box to poop in so i don't know what the deal is there. cats are weird. anyway, if the vet can do an x-ray of his front end to see if he has arthritis in the shoulders or bone spurs on his feet, that might help you identify the problem and provide appropriate treatment.   an anti-anxiety drug such as prozac might help too.  
 while a terrible situation and not a perfect solution, i was about to recommend just making sure everything was put away or closed up (ie shut the toy box, put bags in closets) but then i read this.  how frustrating, i can’t imagine papers on top of a desk not being safe. going through our own daily cleanup for the last few months (diarrhea on the floor 4x per day and the occasional pee) i can imagine how exhausted you are.   there are lots of great suggestions and i don’t have anything else useful to add other than i get your frustration, and i’m so sorry you are going through this.    
 thank you! i’ve got a lot of great suggestions for sure. i’ve tried so many things. i think there is an assumption that it has to be medical but...at this point i’m pretty sure it’s behavioral and i’m wondering what people do if it’s not medical, but behavior. i guess try meds is one of the only real options. yes, i agree on putting stuff away (3 little ones can sometimes make it difficult to stay on top of) if something is on the floor it is absolutely going to get pooped or peed on . 100% for sure and it doesn’t matter what it is. but like you noticed above, he will get up on counters, dressers, desks and pee on things. he will also pee on furniture so things i can’t put away.  i really think he’s territorial with the dogs and he’s high anxiety when anyone comes over. having people looking at the house and having 3 kids that have friends over i think push him over the edge. not much i can do about that. waiting to hear from vet.   
 thank you! he has a cat tree and so many places to be alone. we have a very large home and no matter how many kids or guests are here there are multiple places for him to find solace. after he pees in wherever he’s decided to for the day he usually spends rest of the day on top bunk of kids bed, office, cat tree, or a closet sleeping happily.   
 i think anything is possible. a study found that 63% of cats showed leftover bone, so there's a fair possibility that pain is contributing to his problems along with stress. to accommodate the declawing (it's like having your first knuckle removed!) cats often have to alter their gait. this often leads to arthritis and back pain, which is something that builds over time.   here's a little summary of the article: declawing cats: adverse medical and behavioral outcomes   
 dogs are neutered, have had one for 10 years, other one for 5. both rescues and arrived neutered . cat neuter was successful. he was neutered almost 7 yrs ago at the shelter and was rechecked a few weeks later by my vet for a kitten checkup . thank for thinking of different things, i’ve racked my brain!   
 hi! i'm thinking it's behavioral but you're going to have to figure out how to ignore the yelling, and contain him. play music (relax my cat is an app, also there's musicforcats.com ) and have recorded poetry play for him. this isn't going to be a perfect answer because whatever it is inside or outside of that house, visitors bringing in strange smells on their shoes etc etc is still there.  you said you have small kids? did this start timewise correlating to babies in your house? i don't know, but in any case you're truly going to have to contain him.  you don't have the time, never mind the energy to keep cleaning. you're better off explaining a yelling cat than trying to keep up with an issue that's gotten out of hand. try harp music too, your prospective buyers will be impressed at your efforts to calm an upset kitty   so since he bites things, get a big metal crate although you'll have to watch for him hurting himself and use bitter apple spray on the bars if it looks like he's trying to bite, or hurt his nose. take another look at @tokssngstrs post from earlier, #6 i think. he's holding you-all hostage and you're right, it isn't fair. but you haven't given up on him and he needs help. maybe the move will be the thing, as with another kitty here, and will remove him from whatever it is that is driving him to mark every thing. or not, but you're right, you can't keep on like this, and he needs to be kept from eliminating wherever he pleases.  
 your plan b might have to be temporary containment or crate training...there's nothing bad about these methods, and they are most definitely better than dealing with the house in such chaos.  
  i feel your pain......i had a cat that was a carbon copy of your cat behaviour wise. it’s awful. you’re a better person than me though, i ended up giving him to my mother in law (i have 3 kids, and at the time my youngest was starting to crawl....and i couldn’t have a cat peeing and pooping where she crawls) thinking our house was too loud and stressful for him. she is widowed and lives alone...we thought he needed quiet. we were wrong. within a week he was pooping in her basement, and she took him to the shelter. so awful. he was an amazing cat otherwise. so i totally understand where you are right now and how it feels. he ruined our basement carpet. we have a large house and to re carpet our entire basement is super pricey and just annoying to have to do because of a cat that has behaviour issues.  anyway, i definitely recommend containing him somehow. do you have a basement bathroom or laundry room you can set him up in? or even a large crate....i attached a picture of where we had our 7 month old kitten after we brought him home and it worked so well. because of my experience with our previous cat, i had to be sure that the newbie would pee and poop in the box before he got the run of the house. you could crate your kitty for a while, then slowly give him more freedom if all goes well.  medication was literally the only thing we didn’t try with fletcher, and i wish we had....but at the time i was just done. if i hadn’t had 3 kids, it might have been different.  anyway....i wish you lots of luck. and just you know aren’t alone in how you feel!  
 if you are going to go the prozac route i'd suggest starting as soon as possible so that the medication has time to kick in before the holidays. it takes a couple of weeks before you will see any difference in his moods, but it should definitely help with his anxiety. he will be a much happier cat if he doesn't have to feel anxious about territory all the time.   one other more "creative" idea i thought of while reading this thread is you might also want to consider trying the hills c/d stress prescription diet with your cat. it's really formulated for cats who have urinary issues and cystitis that are influenced by stress. but it has a few things added to it that make cats calm, like tryptophan. you could try it in conjunction with the prozac.   
 i’m back and unfortunately have totally, completely,and utterly have had it! i have concluded after years of trying to remedy this to absolutely no avail i am done. he had been using his litter box regularly  over past week or so. this has happened off and on for years now. he will suddenly start to use the box and i think we’ve got it under control, only to go right back to making the house a toilet. well we’ve had a good two weeks then suddenly he went into my sons room and peed all over a bench in his room, totally destroyed it. he got on couch and peed all over the decorative pillows. , he went to show rack and peed on it ruining an expensive pair of boots. this morning my husband got the surprise that the cat got into his work bag and peed all over his laptop computer and destroyed important paperwork, all soaked in urine. the cat fully emptied bladder. he then peed all over the wall and floor this morning and just now, right in front of me got into a basket that holds magazines and pooped in it. right in front of me! i appreciate everything, all of the advice i’ve gotten. i’ve tried everything. i have all the boxes, tried all kinds of foods, litters, boxes, multiple boxes, sprays, cleaners, vet checks, etc. he goes crazy in a crate and screams all night. my dogs now have to live outside bc if they come in the cat pees absolutely everywhere. so they live out now. i’ve had to replace rugs, floors, carpets, shoes, bags, clothes. i’ve had to call teachers bc instead of “my dog ate my homework “ it is my cat peed on it, and he actually did. guests can’t come, kids can’t have friends over bc the cat poops and pees on their bags, shoes, jackets, etc. this has been so bad for so long i can’t even recall everything. we’ve had to pull our home off the market bc of the cat. if anyone looks he pees everywhere. cannot afford to continuously pull up carpets and have full home deep cleanings. the cat is literally running our lives. i’ve tried and i’m heartbroken but i can’t live like this anymore. i’m calling around to shelters today.  
 thank you for being understanding! i’ve read through so many forums and i think it must be a rarity for someone to update that it just didn’t work out. i wanted to see that i guess to feel better about the decision. we’ve had him since a kitten so of course we are all attached to him but this has gotten to a level of destruction that i just see no way out of anymore. like you said he must be upset too but he sure appears happy as long as no dogs and no guests in the house. no idea what could be the triggers for yesterday and today’s events. no visitors, no dogs, nothing. i just can’t understand it. he pees and then goes to clean himself and sleep.  anyhow i’ve called a few places that are all full so i’m not sure what to do but i’ve got to find a new situation for him (and us) as i feel like a prisoner of the cat!   
 i may have missed it, but did you try the prozac?  our bruce was a sweet but anxious cat and would pee all through the house when he was upset. we figure it was sort of his way of comforting himself when he was stressed if he could smell himself everywhere. of course, ruined carpets and furniture were the opposite of comforting to us humans! we tried all different things and ultimately went the prozac route. it took a little while to build up in his system but once it did it was like night and day. no more peeing everywhere, no more ruined carpets, no more stepping in puddles in the middle of the night. any time we slipped up and missed his prozac for a few days he'd regress, so it was a long term thing.   after a few years of prozac we switched to clomipramine for various reasons, so that may be something to investigate as well. wedgewood pharmacy even componded it into treats for us so we weren't shoving a pill down his throat every morning.   all in all, bruce was on prozac/clomipramine for probably 5 years until he passed, and it really did a lot for him. if you haven't, i'd suggest giving it a try; every cat is different of course, but there's nothing to lose at this point.   i completely understand the frustration, only posting in case it gives you more ideas. best of luck no matter how you go forward.  
 i am so sorry you are dealing with this. potty issues are no fun for anyone. it is a long shot but if you are considering rehoming have you reached out to local farms? i know many in my area keep cats around (usual ones that shelters call "hard to place" because of bathroom trouble) to keep bugs etc. away  
 she gets an annual each year with full blood work and exam.  
 daftcat, what was the litter you changed for krista? what was the old kind that was perhaps irritating her?  
 we changed from a better way which i thought was performing better with the littermaid until it wasn’t. her pee kept gunking up the box and the littermaid stopped being able to clean it. i finally turned off the littermaid since i’m generally around when she uses the box anyway.   we are changing to world’s best litter. i thought it was a bold claim but so far it’s performing quite well. the pee doesn’t gunk and she’s burying her poops again. i may even be able to turn the littermaid back on once we have changed out the last of the old litter. it’s been a gradual switch so she doesn’t reject the new litter.  
 lol! i see your point. but, if the op has a walmart and can buy it there, isn't worth a shot?  
 i am going to try mixing a bit of the walnut litter with fresh step so that it won't be as expensive. i am hoping that having just a little added may make a difference. i think the member who told me about it was also mixing it with another litter in order to try to keep the cost down - and it was working for her.  however, i totally get why you would prefer not to try it given the number and sizes of the litter boxes!  
 the only thing to do about the hallway is to accept that it will take her a bit longer to get comfortable than it would without the hallway. she'll need more hiding places, even if they are shallow. the deep hiding places where you can't get her are dangerous for her. so more hiding places will make her feel safer, and shallower ones will make her actually safer.  we had several cats at the time and only one was disturbed by the strangers in the hall. she was two when we rescued her, so who knows what happened with strangers in the hall before.  be aware that a prized hiding place for frightened cats is to rip the cloth on the bottom of the bed springs and move into the springs. they seem to be comfortable there even when people are in the bed.  
 i know this is frustrating, and you really want to bond with her and pet her. but i would stop going to her all together. ignore her completely except for feeding her and leaving treats near her. leave the treat on a dish and place it just outside of where she is hiding then walk away. she may not get to the treat until you are asleep, or away but she will know that you left it there. still speak to her but don't look at her when you do so. even if you approach her slowly, you could still (to her) look like someone who is coming to hurt her, stalking her. i also agree with blocking off the deep hiding spots, but still provide comfortable hiding spots for her to go to, that are "hidden" and out of the way but still accessible. you don't want to push her too far too quick and have her get a urinary complication.  with you approaching her upwards of 3 times a day with treats, you might not be respecting her current boundaries, which is why there is no progress being made. i'm not blaming or accusing you of anything, some cats are just very un-trusting of humans. i know of some people who it took several months to get them to just stop hiding, never mind eating an offered treat or being pet. i hope she comes around soon, and it will be fantastic when she does. just remember, she does not hate you, she is simply scared and un-trusting. and as much as you don't want to hear this......it takes time (ewe, bad words!!!) and how much time?....who knows. good luck with your kitty.  
 waiting them out works for most cats and they turn out to be warm and loving pets. there have been so many posts in this site of people in your same situation, wondering if there cat will ever come out and then one day the cat is out acting as though they have lived there forever. it is just too soon to get discouraged. guaranteed she will not hide forever.   and even starting out timid and nervous doesn’t mean she will stay that way. my willow was most definitely slow but of all the seven or eight cats that have lived with me over the years, willow is the sweetest and most well behaved.  
 here's a couple more articles that, though probably don't apply to your girl's situation, might have some tips for you:  handling feral cats how to help an abused cat recover  
 i understand since i live with an adopted cat where we have measured socialization improvements in years and not days or weeks. it has been seven years and i am still awed by how hard she works and pushes herself to overcome her fears. for some cats and there owners it just isn’t easy. only you can make the decision on rehoming but if you do, please find a no kill shelter or quiet home for her and be sure to explain the behavior you have seen.  
 hey! i will be back. i am working with cats but please do follow @rubysmama and her advice. if you do go to post 1106 on about page 56 or 57 you can read about getting bj to adjust. that cuts down a lot on that long read she mentioned although there are many more cats there you can read about. lol it may help you to understand some tricks that many people use to help ferals adjust and what their body language can tell you. i have read the posts in “first time trying to tame a feral “and they have great info but i have not read meet buggy yet. i am sure it is great too. there are lots of wonderful threads here that can help you and lots of great people who will give you good information. don’t give up! you are doing a great thing be rescuing this cat. ferals just take time and some behavior tricks to get them socialized. i’m sorry this info is brief but i must take care of 23 cats. i’ll come back as soon as i can.  
 hi! thank you @jcatbird   something i'm noticing in reading in your posts is that you're getting feedback from friends and coworkers that isn't applicable to your situation with this cat. you aren't like your friends or your coworkers, and your cat isn't like theirs. by which i mean that she is her own unique wonderful self with her own experiences, and she shouldn't be compared to other cats that have obviously lived different lives than hers.  by the way, you're commenting that she only comes out at night. i'm thinking as was also mentioned upthread, that your apartment building isn't as quiet as you think, and there are quite likely other cats and/or dogs in the building that she can detect, whether you're aware of them or not.  were there animals in your apartment before you moved in? if so she can tell. you might get a black light and double check for urine spots. enzymatic cleaners help with that.  music can be helpful, as mentioned, you should try low volume classical harp music, there is an app called relax my cat, there is musicforcats.com and also george handel compositions are known to help a cat to relax.  also, since the feliway doesn't help, and there are cats who aren't affected by it at all, you could try one of these; quiet moments cat treats, there is calming care, calm-o-mile, sentry, natures miracle calming spray, vetri-science's composure is another item to look at, pet remedy (it has valerian) is yet another, as is essential pet pet-ease, only natural pet (brand and website) has a calming product, pet naturals also has one i believe. also thunderease has diffusers as does sentry. you might want to check with your vet, but some people have good results with cbd oil, plus there are vet-prescribed calming products too. lambert vet supply is a website to look at, and of course chewy, also there's petwishpros, drsfostersmith, animaleo.  there is a product called a lickimat which could be helpful, as cats can be calmed by the process of licking. it also could help in the introduction phase where you're having them eat near to one another; the lickimat - food puzzles for cats  this discussion's post talks about some other products; calming treats for a very picky cat  
 this is probably my favorite of him:       and barry with his bff duncan:    i keep trying to get a video of him playing fetch but the new kitten hogs the action. also need to get a video of when he comes running when i call out "who wants to eat" or "who wants to play"   
 the first picture of barry all scrunched up is his beauty shot from the shelter booth at the local pet shop in august, 2016.  the picture of him hiding in the radiator was from february, 2017.   the picture of him laying on the rug is from may, 2017.  the rest of them are from around june, 2018.  i don't want to hijack @coffeefrapp thread, but here's a brief history of barry: he started at the shelter booth in august, 2016 and i first met him in november, 2016 but passed on adopting him because my wife wanted an orange cat. in february, 2017, when we went back for barry and my wife warned me he might be gone, but the volunteer in the booth was shocked that we wanted him and happy to help us out. that poor guy was in that booth for six months.  we took him home and i spent a lot of time with him in a cramped little bathroom. he hid for the first week, mostly under the deep freeze. when he finally came out to look at me, it took every bit of strength not to reach out and grab and squeeze him. eventually i got him to take treats from my hand and to like being pet. but honestly, it took a few months before he would tolerate any prolonged petting and it wasn't until earlier this year that he would really circle around for pets. he will still get spooked and run away if something isn't right.  he has never sat on my lap and rarely has sat next to me on the couch (although he won't get up and leave if i sit next to him). although he is good with greeting me and letting me pet him, last month for the first and only time he sat next to me on the floor so that i could pet him. that took 18 months. he likes my wife a lot, but she doesn't get much more than a pet or two before he moves away.  i started in a different place than @coffeefrapp barry was a tnr cat with a spotty history and was very wary of humans. there are family and friends who have never seen him because he hides when the doorbell rings. even though barry is not a cuddle bug, he is a great companion. cf's cat is older and probably having a hard time adjusting - cats hate change - and will likely be ok.   
 hello!  yesterday i had a bit of a mental breakdown, but i think i was able to vent it out through some complaining, journalling, and ice cream and feel much better now.  i guess i was just feeling so lonely and the cat's personality was just compounding alot of issues i was already dealing with, so i was left with alot of frustration and resentment, which wasn't good for anyone.  anyways, there hasn't really been much behaviour improvement, she still hides all the time, comes out when i go to bed to eat and use the litter box. once a few days i might try to pet her a bit in her hiding spot.  but i feel much better now that i had a good vent session, so while she has not changed, i think i am in a better place for now.  however i have contacted the volunteer organization that i got this cat from, and they were very understanding of my situation. she said she could send some feelers out to see if we can find any good matches to rehome her to a more experienced, patient owner who might have another friendly cat for her to be friends with. of course we will still be trying our best with her until that happens, and are willing to keep her as long as it takes until we are sure she is going to a home that is aware of her needs.  
 so my kitten, harley, has a new behavior that i am hoping someone can give me some insight on. every morning she wakes me and my boyfriend up around 8:30 in the morning by meowing and licking our faces. she also chooses to lay down with us. harley is typically a very independent cat, as she prefers to lay by herself most of the day, so this new behavior is definitely something we noticed fast. she is not the type to snuggle or cuddle, except apparently now in the morning. she also follows me into the bathroom once i get up in the morning and wants to be cuddled and always gets up on the vanity to rub her face on mine. whats going on? is she just wanting affection? she has food, i feed her at night and the bowl is always filled when i go to look in the morning! it happened completely out of the blue, too. how can i keep her from waking me up as well? i love the attention but we stay up late watching tv most nights and i would just like to sleep until my alarm goes off!  
 it does kind of sound like she's just wanting to be with you. and, of course, if you continue to respond to her new habit, she'll keep doing it.   here's a tcs article that might be helpful: how to stop my cat from waking me up at night (step-by-step plan)  
 i knew some people in my old town who had the most beautiful fluffy kitty and whenever i walked by i had my fill of caressing the little baby. buy i noticed that in the early morning chill she was always outside. i kind of surmised after a while that this cat wouldn't let the owners sleep or have privacy in the morn and they had drawn the line. too much of a good thing. a nice problem to have. maybe time to pattern some outside time for kitty into the regime.   
 i had the same problem as you. almost as if he's tethered to you with a large rubber band. then, i found out i could buy band aids in bulk pretty cheap on ebay.   
 hi! how old is she?  rolling around in the litter could be an indication that her skin is itchy, or oily. the litter is either crumbly enough to help the itchiness, or helps dry her skin. try and keep the litter box as clean as you possibly can, and see if your vet would be ok if you add some fish oil to her diet for any possible skin/coat issues, and groom her as frequently as you can.  she probably runs to the food bowl either because she's hungry (do you keep some food out all the time - a high energy cat like this needs to eat a lot) or because that's where she gets attention. do you play with her a lot? try a da bird wand toy.  also, try some music - it's known to help relax cats. there's the app relax my cat, or musicforcats . com.  
 this is famas and murphy.... lmao kiki is the human form of famas    
 my punk finally calmed down when he was 7.5 years old. at 12 years old he can go without playtime provided he gets his outside bird hunting time. my point is i sympathize with you.  i guess you love your hyper punk and play with them more?  maybe some food puzzles will help your girl be entertained through the night? that and a fan.  
 i am so glad i never heard of that show.or.saw it...omgeez i can't believe i even watched it...if your girl is hyper like that then she definitely needs more play time...if you google jackson galaxy...he talks about cats who knock stuff over and it's really because they are bored...if human doesn't play with them they find ways to entertain themsleves...as far as litter box i don't believe it's a skin problem as much as a behavioral issues...as cats don't typically like to be in their urine or feces...hope this helped  
 hello i am new to this site and i need some help please. i have a kitten that is 14 weeks old. she was an outside kitten but she has a sneeze and slight cough so i decided to bring her in. my problem is that she will not use the litter box consistently. she will go potty under my bed or cough. i bought the cat attract litter and sometimes she will use it but not always. i tried to put her in a crate with the box food and water, but it didn't help. is there anything else i should try? i do have other cats in the house but she plays with them. i don't wanna put her back outside but if i cannot figure this out my husband will make me. please help.  
 ok i will try all this. thank you very much  
 my new female kitten is about seven, or eight weeks old now. she is getting along great with her big brother, neutered one year old, although still supervised.  when should i spay her? i hate to wait too long, because then i have to separate her from outlaw, just when they are ready to be together full time, but of course, she needs to be old enough. the clinic says they can do it when she is eight weeks, or two pounds, but that sounds so tiny. what is optimal for size and strength to heal quickly, while still young?  also, they play very rough! how long should i keep them apart, barring any infection, or complication?  by the way, thank you to everyone who gave me advice about introducing them! it’s been so much fun!  
 hi!  the aspca says as early as 8 weeks as well, but in any case, cats can reach sexual maturity as early as four months, so at some point before then.  
 i would ask your vet.  personally i'm in the 4 month boat. right when they hit 4 months for female cats. not because they can't do it at 8 weeks but because i struggle with the idea of my wee baby kitten being operated on. at 4 months they are bigger. for boy cats i have waited for 6 months on some.... but i never wanted to go through another cat being in heat again; so it was a "you are 3 months old miss kitty you are getting fixed next month!"  
 i know it can be done but i don't like the idea of a pet cat getting surgery at 8 weeks if it can be avoided. of course shelters have to do what they have to do but for those already in a home i prefer to wait a little longer. personally i think 14 weeks is just right.  
 selene was three months old when the shelter had her spayed. my previous female was six months.  
 we recently had a special forum where experts talked about spaying/neutering cats. their recommendation was to have it done by 5 months, or basically before they reach maturity.  here's a link to the forum: experts from "feline fix by five" talk spay/neuter  as well, some tcs articles on the topic: why you should spay and neuter your cats spaying and neutering - what to ask before the surgery spaying and neutering - what to look for after surgery  
 have you talked to your vet about pics? i would, tomorrow in an emergency appointment! what your kitten is eating can kill him! pics can be managed from what i have read. it might be worth looking it up and reading about it.  
 pica is from a lack of a certain mineral or nutrient in their diet, right? i spoke with two different vets about it and they didn’t seem too worried but they were also trying to diagnose more pressing symptoms at the time. i should point out that my kitten has dilated cardiomyopathy and now cardiac cachexeria. he also has a palette defect.  
 what is the name of the pill? have you tried using pill pockets or other pill dough to make it easier to get the pill into the cat? can you have the medicine compounded into a liquid or flavored chew treat or transdermal gel?  
 hi there! i'm glad to hear that you adopted a cat that clearly needs a good home  it sounds like poki is still nervous and getting used to your house, but is starting to settle in. everything that you have posted sounds ok to me, but i'm not too sure that i understand what you mean when you say that you are the boss. is she being aggressive towards you? if she is lashing out at you when you touch her i'd suggest taking a step back and give her space.   the puking obviously isn't ideal. do you have a vet appointment to get her checked over?  one thing you might want to pay attention to while petting her is whether or not she has any hotspots that she doesn't want you to touch. she's a bit older, and if she doesn't want you touching parts of her body that could point to something like arthritis or other kinds of pain.   
 hi! poor poki, sounds like that kitty has had some challenging (even traumatic) situations to live through.  you're doing fine - just don't force anything. allow poki to come to the realization that you are the giver of all good things, --but this is important, you really should slow down and wait until poki approaches you.  give her a break from your petting etc sessions and give her a break from learning good things about the floor. you have all the time in the world now, but she doesn't know that and it sounds like she could use a little peace and quiet.  try some music for both these kitties - there's an app called relax my cat, there's musicforcats.com and also classical harp music etc.  do cats get jealous? (and what to do about it when they do)  how to successfully introduce cats: the ultimate guide  you, your cat and stress  also, try one or two of these items below - she's likely unable to keep her food down due to the stress, maybe the kitten glop or pedialyte will help getting some nutrients into her. (just a note, i've seen that some people are using nutritional yeast but i'm wary of this one-too much can cause the uric acid to become too high and the cat could end up with kidney issues.)  there are also some toppers/enticements for later on to try, if you're still interested in getting her on to wet food;  you could double-check with your vet just to be sure these things are ok. try kitten food, depending on the brand, it'll have higher protein.  try some raw egg yolk. egg white must always be cooked, and some people cook the white and make a slurry of sorts by adding in the raw yolk.  try making this; tent test for dehydration and home-made pedialyte recipe - the daily kitten  also, try making one of these; kitten glop recipes - supplementing cats and kittens with nutritious formula you make at home: presented by bengal cat breeder foothill felines. --this website has a number of kitten glop recipes, with ingredients that you may very well have in your house.  these can be used on their own or combined with food. also, if you heat the food a little - stir it so there aren't any hot spots from the microwave. or you could heat some water, about a tablespoon, and add that to canned food. a small glass works to stir it all up.  chicken, beef or ham flavored baby food such as gerber stage 2 - make sure there is no garlic or onions in the ingredients  tuna and/or the juice, a low mercury/low/no sodium brand is called safecatch  salmon, mackerel  sardines (make sure there are no bones)  boiled cut up chicken or turkey with no seasonings  canned kitten food any brand - it's usually smelly. see if it's eaten on its own, then maybe mix it in or put on top  try mixing in kitten milk replacer - there are recipes on the internet or store bought  fish, tuna or bbq flavored canned wet food (i personally have never seen bbq flavors, but...)  lickable cat treats or pouch treat 'gravy' poured over the food  kitten glop (recipes in website link above) bonito flakes fortiflora fish oil green beans, asparagus mushed up  goat milk, or no lactose cow milk whole cooked eggs (the white must always be cooked) or raw egg yolk now and then broth with no salt and no garlic or onion or seasonings of any kind there are also commercial toppers, applaws is a brand that can work well as a topper   some good treats would be freeze dried purebites, orijen, meowtinis, meowables  there are also lickimats that you could spread types of soft food onto, even plain unflavored yogurt, and even freeze it. licking something can help a cat to feel better emotionally the lickimat - food puzzles for cats shredded cheddar cheese   
 after rescuing my cat coco she stayed under the couch for 3 months. then my bedroom and would eat with my cats but very cautious. finally, she goes to the living room on her own and eats with my cats.no longer cautious . she will even play in my living room and dining room. it took a year. i would brush her every day and play with her. she and my cat peaches chase each other around. still afraid of maggie if she walks toward her. otherwise coco will play right in front of maggie. coco is 5, maggie 6,and peaches 7 yrs old. it took coco a yr to have enough courage to be close to my cats.  give it time. i bet they will become bffs. peaches was with my cat josie( passed almost 17). they would groom each other. though when i rescued peaches 5 weeks old, josie did not like it.  when i rescued maggie at 3 months she stayed in an inclosed bed. every time she would grab for me i quietly say no. then she stopped. fast learner. even taught her not to get involved when i play with peaches by pushing my arm back. i wish coco could understand that maggie knows to sit and wait when i play with her.  
 sorry for all of the typos.   
 if there is no blood or fur flying, the hissing and swatting is normal. hissing is saying "enough", "stop", "don't come closer" and as long as they are respecting each other when that hiss is made they should sort it out. swatting is an extension of it to reinforce the hiss. my mom's male hissed at my girl when she joined us for a good four months, the hissing got less with time and now it is only once in a great while when she is overly aggressive and won't back down.  if the boys start aggressively going after the girl unprovoked then i would step in. but as long as it is in reaction to the girls proximity, it should be normal acclimation.  
 i agree with @kieka that it sounds like it could be pica -- our two cats are a bit like @karenkat's in that one likes to lick plastic bags and the other has a thing for packing tape. apparently siamese cats (ours are mixes) tend to get it.   and so we put all plastic bags in a drawer, pull packing tape off boxes, and keep numerous other things out of reach. those include some of the other odd things that ireland (packing tape) likes: rubber bands (really bad and i've seen others mention their cats going for elastics and hair thingies), kindling for the fire, shoelaces, ribbons, and leather. (she ate the little tabs on the back of a pair of my shoes!) fortunately, ireland has eased off a bit so things like kindling can stay out, though rubber bands are simply banned from the house. edwina, though, comes running when she hears plastic bags; it's a very annoying habit when i'm cooking!  
 hi everyone! my name is audrie and i recently adopted a male kitten from a local shelter. he’s my first kitty and i love him so much. his name is cayde (named after my favorite game character) and he’s about 3 months old, 7 weeks when adopted. he hasnt been neutered yet because he’s been underweight, but he’s swiftly approaching the appropriate 3 pounds and he can get the procedure soon!  i’m not sure how he ended up at the shelter or if he was separated from his mom too early, but i’m having a really big issue with raising him and maybe someone can help me.  he is a biter and a scratcher. he draws blood and leaves a dozen scratches on me daily, and always insists on biting me. he wraps his limbs around my arm, digs his claws into my skin, and goes to town with the biting. and it hurts!  i feel like i’ve done everything i could do; i don’t use my hands as toys, always keep a toy handy in case he goes after me. i’ve blown air in his face; he doesn’t even flinch! i’ve made hissing sounds, tried to sound like a wounded cat with sad meows. i’ve tried to cry, and use a slight flick to the nose. my last resort was spraying him with water. he definitely reacts to the water bottle (although he tries to go in the shower with me and doesn’t seem to mind water) but he still insists on trying to get a quick bite before i can reach for the spray bottle.  i feel like i can’t even pet him anymore. and just today he scratched my eye and i had to make a quick doctor visit.  as of right now, my command is “no bite!” while pointing at him.   he also insists on attacking my head. i have very long hair, keeping it in a bun as much as possible, but he claws at my head/face any chance he gets.  i’m not sure what’s normal kitten behavior just yet. i know he’s a baby but i’ve had him for a little over a month there’s have been no improvements.   what are my other options to stop him from being so violent? will his attitude change much when he’s neutered?  
 hello and welcome to tcs. cayde is a cutie pie.   sorry he's struggling with how to "play nice".   currently the recommendation is to keep kittens with their mom siblings till at least 12 weeks so have have time to learn cat manners. so it's possible being adopted out so young, he missed those lessons. so that job is now yours. here's an article that has some tips: teach your kitten how to play nice : the humane society of the united states  and here's a few tcs articles that might have some ideas for you: how to stop playtime aggression in cats cat aggression toward people  cats and discipline don't mix 5 reasons to never spray water on your cat  
 when he bites you hiss at him. this is what his mother would have done. after a year of biting and scratching, it occurred to me, oh, yeah, hiss at her. sweet gum (a year of biting and scratching gets that sort of nickname) went for my foot for the 500th time. i hissed at her. she threw herself away from my foot and grabbed her own. from then on she played with her foot not mine. still does.   others say shake a can with pennies in it, but you can't really walk around carrying a can all the time.  you might want to practice hissing a couple of times. you may spit a bit at first. it should still work.  
 neutering may help, and, certainly is worth trying. there are a few different types of aggression in cats. the big 3 are, from most to least common: play aggression, redirected aggression, and status aggression   if he has the expression he has in your second picture when eh attacks you, it's almost certainly play aggression, which usually goes away as the cat gets older, especially if you keep working with them. ( a second cat also usually will help with it.)  
 sorry, i forgot you had tried hissing. i know it's maddening when people tell you to do what you've already tried and told you'd tried.   whatever works will be the last thing you try. i, currently, think of hissing because it's the thing i tried after a year of being bitten. that it works with sweet gum doesn't mean it will work with your boy, who is adorable.   one thing i did notice and i don't know if it is true of your boy or not. sweet gum attacked my feet when i wore socks, but never when i was barefoot. i've heard of others who attack with or without socks. i tried to make her a sock toy - stuffed a sock with bunting for her to wrestle. she ignored it totally, completely and to this day.  
 so to put this whole question into context;  i'm currently moving out of my parent's house, and am living with my boyfriend and his family. their house and where i work is only a fifteen minute drive from where my parents live. my boyfriend and i are planning to be moving about 6 hours away, however. this won't happen for months at least, but it is an eventuality.  my cat is 8 years old, and she'll be 9 on may 5th. her name is jinx, and she's a tabby/bengal mix and i've had her since she was less than a year. while she's also bonded to my parents, she's the closest to me, and my parents have always reported behavioral differences whenever i'm away. she meows incessantly at them, regardless of whether she'd fed, watered, been played with, been cuddled, been let outside, and had the litter box cleaned. she'll also sleep on my bed when i'm away, and doesn't do that so often when i'm home. so basically we've come to the conclusion that she just misses me a lot, and so bugs them.   she even runs up onto the front deck almost every time i drive up the driveway and park, and she'll either sit and wait for me, or run out to my car and jump in when i open the door.  there are two dogs at my parent's house, both small terrier mixes (one is 7, the other is 3, both female). all three get along and are allies (most of the time). there have never been any other cats in the house since jinx arrived.   my parent's house is on 3/4 acre of land, and jinx is both an indoor and outdoor cat. she's allowed to come & go as she pleases (bathroom window is left open nearly every day), and spends a good portion of her time outdoors so long as it's weather permitting, although she also spends a lot of time inside napping. this is well outside of city limits and as i stated before, a fifteen minute drive to the nearest town. she's used to vehicles and avoids them, but she's never been in a city environment before.  so, to my question... take her with me, or leave her?   with my plans to move 6 hours away, that will put me in a city. a very, very big city. i'll end up working all day like i do now, but it will just be me and my boyfriend in the apartment.  jinx is used to a routine where she's allowed to roam free through the neighborhood, and go in & out of the house all day, and she's accustomed to my parents being home before me most days, as well as being around the little dogs.   if i were to leave her at my parent's house, like she is now, i would get to see her maybe every few months, and only for maybe a few hours. right now, and for the past week, i've be able to visit with her every few days, and will continue to do so while my boyfriend and i still live close.   on the flip side, if i were to take her with me, i'd get to see her every day, but she'd be cooped up in an apartment (i don't know that i'd feel comfortable with her going outside, even living in the suburbs). plus, i'd be at work all day and she'd be completely alone. no dogs, likely no neighborhood to roam and other cats to harass, no parents coming home before me or popping in on their lunch breaks, nothing that is comfortable and normal to her.  my parents think it would be best to leave her at their place. and i am leaning towards that... but i really, really need some outside opinions. i don't want to be selfish and take her with me and have her be miserable. i dote on her so much and she's pretty much my child. but i also worry that if i leave her she'll become depressed. (i'll also become depressed... wahh)  i also apologize for the novel.     
 it doesn't take long to resettle a cat. mine stays under the bed for 2 days. i force him to stay in for 2 weeks. during this time he plays every trick he knows to get outside, crying, staring longingly outside windows. stomping (yes he stomps) and trying to dash btwn my legs. i let him out for the first time. he strolls around for a few minutes, has a spook or 2 and then strolls back in. he's moved 3 times. but to answer the subtext of your question i know from experience that if you are wishing to change your cat from an outside cat to an indoor cat then a house move is the purrrfect opportunity.  
 the change from outdoor to indoor cat might not be that difficult.  some cats take to it very well.  my wesley was indoor/outdoor for about 9 years until i moved to an apartment and he was fine with the change to indoor only.  and he'd really enjoyed the outdoors so i'd been very worried.  i also adopted polly at age 7 who had been indoor/outdoor all her life and she too made the transition to indoor only with no difficulty.   that's just my experience - i know not all cats take to indoor only life.   is there any possibility of a trial run?   if she was absolutely miserable,you could always take her back to your parents house.  true, it's a six hour drive but if you had to take her back, maybe someone could meet you half way?   also, since she would be alone while you worked, could you adopt another cat so she'd have someone to play with?  
 my first instinct was take her with you.  my male manx was an outside cat for 10+ years and we transitioned him into an apartment with little trouble.  but once i read this, i thought about the habits of bengals and think this might be a good idea.  if jinx has a lot of bengal-like habits, she may miss the ability to jump around and run like mad.  and if you'll be in an apartment, cats can bother other tenants; they yowl and run around (if you've ever lived under cats, when they run back and forth it sounds like an elephant stampede).  i know where i live it's hard to find places that will rent to you with cats and often charge a larger deposit and additional monthly rent.   
 thank you for your input. i'd definitely have to look into getting her a cat tree if she does well with a trial run in the apartment first.   
 hello there druids !   i’m currently in a similar situation to yourself and was wondering what you decided and how jinx coped with the situation ?   kind regards  jordan  
 hello and welcome to tcs. i also think it's not so much that mia doesn't like you anymore, but that she has a new best bud.   play with them both, give them both lots of attention, and let them know you love both of them.   here's a tcs article that might be helpful. the last paragraph mentions how to divide your time and attention between cats.   the multi-cat household  
 if the dog will sit and the cat cat get close enough to sniff and size up the dog it will help her adjust to him faster. it is really important that the yorkie obeys basic commands like “sit”, “stay” and “leave it”, because your cat isn’t going to understand his friendliness at first. if his owner can keep him still or calm him down during first face to face introductions and interactions it will really help. so have his owner work with him before any meetings.  
 hi catman, sounds like a very frustrating situation for everyone! the first step for solving urinating problems is to get a clean bill of health from the vet. have you taken your cat in yet for testing for a uti/crystals/cystitis? inappropriate urination often is caused by health issues.  in the meantime i would tell your roommate not to leave their things out where the cat can access them. if they put their bag in their room and close the door the cat won't be able to pee on it.  
 if you mean feliway yes they are definitely worth trying if this is a behavioral problem. it is vital to rule out the urine issues first though. there is no way to know if she is extremely healthy unless urine and blood work is checked. cats do everything possible to mask their discomfort. when you actually see an issue usually it is far advanced and more expensive to treat. this is why yearly check ups are important too even for indoor cats who seem fine. she found the comforting spots she likes to pee on to make her feel better for whatever reason in her mind that could be. but don't let it go unchecked even if she stops because it can be painful or progress to worse problems.  
 ok went to the vet, she's healthy, no medical issues. i got this cat urine spray to help with the problem which seems to be behavioural, the vet said to clean up the excess urine with a sponge then spray the product and let it air dry, then to squeeze the urine into her new litter tray which i've dedicate to her on the other side of the apartment on the balcony where she roams.   i hope this was the end of it, but my roommates aren't convinced. they believe she's trying to mark them as her own - since floofy targets their possessions. i'm going to keep watching i don't have long before my roommate makes her decision. any other tips would be helpful.  
 yeah, i generally agree @timmer . i feel like introductions don't necessarily help that much when one party is a kitten. i might just like to see if the 9 yr old gizmo will hiss & growl before letting the kitten roam and possibly jump on him. i'm not really clear introductions help with an older cat that doesn't want to be jumped on and doesn't have the disposition to put the kitten in its place, but i figure if the older cat gets all growly at the sight of a kitten, a slow introduction can't hurt anything. which i think is what you were saying -- just see where they are at and adjust from there. some older cats do have quite a bit of trouble with kittens, so its worth going slow if you have an older cat with that issue, even if going slow won't actually do anything to help. i kind of wish i had gone slower with my current set of cats -- even though i don't think it would have changed anything. after 4 years, my older one doesn't ever mean much when she growls at the younger, and once in a blue moon, is starting to voluntarily play with him a bit -- but it would have been nice if it didn't take four years.  
 i would suggest waiting a few days just in case the new one develops a uri. mine all got along great and my boys actually opened the door where indie was, but they have all passed around the sneezing and eye goop for a month. they have all had antibiotics and i had to run the boys to the emergency vet for fluids at one point. it’s not just about if they get along in my opinion.  
 how is maurice doing tonight?  
 i've just come across this thread. glad to see maurice is eating. that's the important thing. well, and litter box use, too.   then you can concentrate on getting him relaxed/comfortable in his new home.   this article is for new cats, but might have some tips for you. how to help a new cat adjust to your home  
 maybe try enticing him out of the crate with treats, or something else irresistible.   
 it's going to be slow, but it sounds encouraging. the big thing is that it sounds like he really does want to eat. just keep an eye out on the litter box issue. he's going to have to go! and, i didn't say it, but be sure he is drinking also.   if you're going to get one big cardboard box, maybe another that can 'hide' his litter box nearby? i don't know if he has a covered litterbox now, so maybe that is not an issue.  he may not be happy with his new environment yet, but i am willing to bet he still trusts you.  
 i cannot imagine that he doesn't still trust you - seriously.   but, also seriously, and no offense intended, who is checking his litterbox? maybe he is used to having a lot of 'stuff' in there, but maybe now is not the time to let that aspect stay the same - at least until you can detect whether or not he is using it close to what would be normal.  
 oh no seriously no offense taken any advice you have is super appreciated. his litter box didn’t use to get checked very often and i do plan on changing that since it’s finally my responsibility now but i’m trying to wait til he’s comfortable. although his litter was replaced just a few days before we moved him, i’m not sure if enough time has passed for me to change it again just yet. what i am worried about is that he does know that his scent is all in there so if i were to change the litter then i’m afraid he might see it as another ‘new’ thing and become even more afraid of it. what do you think?  
 ok! but, you saying you're checking the litterbox and it looks ok, but you're still saying you're looking for signs he's used it? i am sure i am misunderstanding... sorry.  
 yikes! three weeks of kitty waste clumps in the litter box all at the same time! i find ruby's litter box seems "full" if i only remove the clumps once a day, instead of my typical morning and evening removals.  
 here's some:  the litterbox: what every cat owner needs to know (this one has several links inside) how to set up an effective litterbox maintenance routine how often should you clean the litter box? how to minimize litterbox odor   
 hi. to be sure, she is just one of those cats that must have a clean litterbox. if you have room, you might want to have two litterboxes. that way, if she goes before you have a chance to clean the one, maybe she will use the second one instead of your towels??  
 i allow my cat to completely explore an area and let him move on at his own pace. your boy is beautiful and looks comfortable on the leash. my maine coon understands "reining" - i lightly toss the lead, just like starting a horse in harness; i use light pressure to turn him (similar to neck reining a horse). i hope this helps!  
 it is possible that a 3rd cat might be a good playmate for your girl and help give grandpa a break, but it will depend on the personality of the new adoptee. you will want to spend a lot of time talking to shelter staff or breeders to find a good fit.   
 having mixed much older cats with much younger, i would say don’t stress your senior further by adding another cat to the mix. yes it might be a playmate to the younger but it might also be twice the pestering of your senior. my younger cat and a foster cat about the same age absolutely delighted in chasing my senior, preventing her from getting to the litterbox and keeping her from sleeping in her favorite places. once the foster left it was much more peaceful all around.  
 i can't figure this one out guys. i know cats can be fickle but this one has me stumped. 4 month old reese has eaten from a small plate (not a bowl because whiskers) ever since i've had her.  when i pour her food into her plate she comes running to see, but leaves it alone after a sniff. sometimes she'll have a bite or two but hardly more than that. but..if i was to pour her food onto the floor, she'd gorge herself on whatever was sitting there. if i scooped it back up and put it in her plate she would casually walk away like ''oh well food's gone.' then i dump it back out and she makes a u-turn! i tried switching her plate to a new one of a different color and even took off her collar to see if the clanking of tags against her plate might be deterring her. nada.she prefers her food served on a bed of carpet lol. and she isn't a picky cat! she'd eat just about anything. i don't get it.  
 welcome to the wonderful world of cats. they are such wonderful unique individual. your cat reminds us of our cat. we read how cats don't like food or water bowls that are small and have edges that will touch the whiskers when eating or drinking. so we are sitting on the couch when our cat marlow over. we have a small glass of water that is only half full. the next thing we see is marlow with his head jammed into this little cup trying to reach the water at the bottom. so now, we have a water bowl and a water cup for him. he's definitely prefer the water cup. there is much to be learned when 1 watches their cat carefully. i suggest going with what works and also to experiment. i like how's the other poster was thinking about food safety / hygiene.  
 maybe get a scrap of carpet and let the cat eat off that on a hard surface? carpet stores usually have scraps available for a small fee or even for free. or look around / post on freecycle.org or craigslist for free scraps of carpet from anyone's recent flooring project.   
 haha i could try her on a carpet scrap for now, but pretty soon she's gonna begin the switch to a wet diet...you can imagine how that'll turn out. yuck! what's interesting though is that the tastier the morsel in her dish, the less likely she is to reject it...oh well. i guess she's just telling me that she's a cat!  
 i literally just made an account 5 minutes ago because i'm really concerned for my cat.  my cat momo is 1yr and 4mo old, she's a tortoise shell domestic short-hair, and today is the second time i've witnessed this activity, it happens very suddenly, and she acts jumpy, skittish, crouches low to the ground and stares at nothing like something is dangering her life. sometimes she gets her eyes on an object(like a hair brush) and she act likes she's never seen it before, she will slowly walk up to it, freaking out the whole time, when she gets close enough sometimes she will paw at it then jump away. if i try to talk to her or touch her when she's acting like this she acts like she cant hear me and that i'm someone she doesn't know, she runs away from me and her brothers. just a moment ago, before i made this, she was staring at a brush intensely and i moved it maybe a cm she jumped four feet sideways away from the brush. actually as i'm writing this she seems to be starting a new fit, currently she is crouched under the coffee table slowly taking her paw to the brush, swiping it and then pulling away. this doesn't just happen with the brush though, its anything that's near her while shes acting like this.  another thing she does sometimes, is she will run around the house frantically, then stop to lick her back, and then take off running again, she will do that for 20 min to an hour sometimes, i think i've seen her do it 3 times.  are these two things connected somehow?  why is my cat acting these ways?  nothing has changed, same food, activities, same house.  
 i don't know about any specific disorders that causes that sort of behavior, but i'm inclined to agree with bisbee that chances are there is nothing wrong with your cat. i say that because my kitty does the same thing but probably not as often or as long a time frame as yours. she is a neutered 3-year old grey tabby who goes nuts from time to time, chasing her tail or just attacking some object frantically. every time she does that, i think she is nuts. 95% of the time though, she is calm . i don't know what causes my kitty to go into these episodic behavior and my other two kitties (get out of the way) would stare at her like she is nuts, but i take it that she is letting off some steam, running off some excess energy, basically having fun on her own. she gets her vet checkup annually and she is fine. she eats the same food as my other kitties, and she doesn't go into that mode that often, once or twice a day max, for a few minutes only so if yours go on for an hour? maybe best thing to do is get her checked by a vet to make sure there is no health issues that might cause that behavior.  
 this is a classic fhs behavior. fhs is sometimes called rolling skin syndrome. it could be something else of course, but it may progress into self mutilation if something isn't done. finicky or not, in addition to the vet visit, diet is the first place to start.  yes it can be very challenging to get a kibble addict onto a better food. but it can be done.  here's a site with some good helpful information on how to transition your cat to a better diet. many of us have done it. it can take months, and a lot of patience. but it can be done.   http://catinfo.org/docs/tips for transitioning pdf 1-14-11.pdf  http://catinfo.org/  there are many other wet foods out there besides purina pro plan, to try. and there are many to choose from that do not contain a lot of harmful stuff.  here are the first 7 ingredients of purina pro plan chicken kibble  chicken (chicken and poultry meal); wheat and wheat gluten and/or bran; corn gluten meal; soybean meal; animal fat preserved with mixed-tocopherols (form of vitamin e); brewers rice.  http://pets.purina.com.au/proplan/cat/proplanadultchickenrice.asp  any one of the six ingredients following the first could be aggravating momo's condition.  while i would rather see a cat on any canned food than dry, you could start by switching her to a grain free low carb dry food such as evo ancestral diet chicken and see how she does on that. do any food transition very slowly. adding a probiotic will help her body cope with the change.  http://www.evopet.com/products/1441   
 thanks, it was hard, but he's good now.  i hope momo doesn't have fhs, but if it turns out she does and she gets really bad, don't be afraid of the meds.  i felt the same way and really resisted the idea of meds every day for the rest of his life, but i have to tell you, it turned out not to be a big deal.  he doesn't have any side effects from it, isn't zombied out and he is back to being my snuggle baby.   i'm certainly not advocating to put cats on drugs, but in my case it really wasn't a choice.  he was constantly mutilating his tail even after it was gone, so it was drugs or putting him to sleep (and no way was that an option!).    good luck with momo and keep us updated   
 hi - i see your last post was quite some time ago and i'm about to start a post about my cat with similar problems (bit a bit more severe due to a birth defect). how did your cat turn out?  
 the most distressing is she is hiding in a drawer and returns to it as soon as she finishes eating. the hiding, i know, is usually a sign of an ailing cat. she was always my lap cat and followed me around the house.   
 one of the things that started my cat to decline was running full speed from the closet into a door she thought was going to be open when i turned on a vacuum cleaner. are you sure she didn't hit her head on the bed or something else?  
 hi i saw your post and can totally relate to your concerns.  since my cat was adopted from the humane society and this was a new home to her, even tho i had her about 3 wks before she started acting strange i was crushed, i had no idea what would cause her to react that way.  some people suggested that i keep her in my room with all of her things like  her litter box, food, toys etc. and also someone suggested that i get  a calming diffuser, which is feremones of a mother cat or something that calms them, anyway i think that was what helped her because after about 3 wks in her own room with the diffuser she is now pretty normal. of course what is normal in a cat, they are usually pretty crazy anyway,  she still has certain things that scare her but she gets over it pretty quick.  the whole time she had her room i would bring her out into the house and she would stay for awhile and want to go back,  but i would make her go back to the room by herself unless she was just too scared.  i have never had a cat that has done that, so i had no idea what to do.  i also played with her in her room, and talked to her a lot.  maybe that helps too.  i  hope samantha comes around, i am sure she will..definetley try the diffuser  good luck  harriet and kali   
 samantha is doing much better. visits to the vet led to the following regimen. anti-inflammatories (in case she had fallen and bruised something) antibiotic shot,flagyl for something else and a treatment of revolution for fleas.  her anal glands were full and had a slight infection. this was not discovered until week 2. these were expressed and as she was still under the 2 week time limit for the antibiotic to work, no further antibiotics were administered. she is just about at the end of the inflammatory cycle. we did spend one whole day in bed together as she exhibited no bizarre symptoms of tail twitching or running like something was chasing her as long as we were sleeping/cuddleing. whenever i saw her starting to freak out, i put her on my lap and would pet her body length and comb her with a rubber cat brush to distract her.   sometimes she will still attack her tail and crouch low and try to run away from it. but, she is no longer hiding in the drawer under the bed. samantha is now back to watching tv with me, getting in the way of my typing on my computer and sleeping in the open in one of her favorite spots. i have also found that distracting her with toys (wands and such) redirects her attention.   because of the multiple treatments at one time, i do not know exactly what set off the "scared of everything" mode. it could have been allergies, infection or other unknown factors. she is 95% back to "normal". (normal for a siamese anyway)   
 i can't rule out that she may have fallen or hit her head. she is not the most graceful siamese i have ever had.   
  my cat has the "scared" symptom only for the past 3 days. he was such a social cat and now he just hides. he has a fearful look and that wasn't the case before. we feed him non-grain food, but have been giving him kiitty snacks on a daily basis, which we are putting to a complete stop. please let me know if the diet change has helped your cat.  
 honestly the other weird thing is my cat has nostsgmas; she very rarely blinks. but when she is sitting up sometimes i can watch her pupils move just a hair. i wonder if she might have been exposed to that mouse virus, toxoplasmosis. she also sleeps less than any cat i ever had, unless she's in bed w me. also have tiger point male, very gentle. dave  
 sounds like my rag doll with the not sleeping.  i know she naps in the afternoon while i am at work, but when i am home, i never see her sleep.  sometimes she gets in bed with me in the middle of the night, but she doesn't sleep, she just checks to see if i am, and if i she is bored with everything in the apartment she will go ahead and hunker down next to me in hopes that i will caress her downy softness, and if i do, she takes it as a sign i want to play and begins tussling my hand, licking, biting, scratching, putting it to her face so i will pet her behind her ear and just getting more and more worked up until i must rouse and say no, tati, its not playtime.  then she says, well, since you are up, can get a few treats over here - or are you sure you don't want some coffee?  darn cat.  if that doesn't work, she will try to wake up snowy and get her to join in.  i have a harder time saying no to snowy who generally sleeps until i turn the light in the kitchen on.  don't know about random blinking.  the only time i really pay attention to that is if i am trying to get one of them to soften their eyes.  the stray/feral that lives in our back bedroom is a funky cat as far as that goes.  lol,. she will be sending the slow blink while she is growling, or she will attack the screen trying to get to resident kittys, and when she has their full attention, she will do the slow  blink or she will avoid eye contact.  very mixed signals.  ask your cat if she is sure not all cat's aren't dogs?  and tell her i said some dogs are pussy cats.    
 same issues but has just started! i actually looked up ''what makes cats hyper and scared'' and this came up so i clicked it. my little ragamuffin, blue eyes with grey face and white body (got him in january from a breeder). i was sitting down in the chair next to my dads computer and i heard him do like a little caterwaul elsewhere. then in a split second, he had ran, jumped on top of my lap, onto my dads keyboard, then jumped onto his computer, tipping it over, then jumped onto our kitchen ledge!  his eyes were wide open like he just saw the life flash before his eyes. he backed up when i tried to get him off the ledge. i picked him up and kissed the top of his head. i placed him down knowing he may hurt me if he was in pain. a moment later he raced downstairs then through our rolled up carpet. (we took it down and rolled it up for a party) and he then jumped onto the chair in front of my desk downstairs and looked up at me and meowed. i asked my sister and she told me he was just 'hyper'. even though she is probably right, i am super scared for my kitty! my dad had recently tried to kill some wasps in our house so im not sure if he got stung by one! i am not sure what to do!   thank you! i hope your kitty is okay too! she sounds adorable!  
 this just happened to my cat, so i made an account. i am trying to find answers because my cat is experiencing is behavior similar to what you described. he is a 1 year old brown spotted tabby. if you have found any answers, please let me know.  
 hi! welcome!! i'm so sorry to hear about your other furbaby's passing!  you may want to take your resident cat to the vet just to be sure it isn't health related.  
 hi again, yes, actually they are just like little feline sponges for our emotions.  try this, try some classical harp music, or play low volume kusc.org or the app relax my cat. music really does help calm them.  you could also try some chamomile tea from the little bags only (not loose leaf), up to three cooled tablespoons a day in water or food. it'll help calm them, as well as a cuppa for you too. also, @les26 has suggested holy basil to help with serious human stress   you may want to consider letting them have the under bed area, sometimes having a safe place to hide can make a difference as well.  
 try some of jackson's remedies like "stress stopper" or some other ones that he sells, we have used them and had great results! you can put it in their food or water or just rub it on them or spray it in the room, it's worth a try!  good luck!  
 hello and welcome to tcs. condolences on the loss of your cat.  rip sweetie.  if/when you feel up to it, we have a crossing the bridge forum where you can post a tribute to him.   about mason's skipping meals, it could certainly be stress from all the changes that have happened in the last 2 weeks. about picking up on your stress, i had a vet tell me that cats can be affected by their human's stress and emotions.  since he's skipped more meals since the new cat arrived, that likely has something to do with it. he's probably confused about the new feline smell.   to entice him to eat, try giving him something stinky like tuna or sardines.   i'm glad you called your vet, as i'm sure you know, cats can't go too long without eating. hopefully he'll eat something by tomorrow, and you won't have to stress him further with a vet visit.  you mentioned you read some articles on this site, but i'll post links to a few i think might be helpful, in case you didn't see them.  how to get a cat to come out of hiding? 10 must-know tips for happy living with a shy cat 16 top cat experts share tips for dealing with timid cats do cats mourn?  is your cat stressed out? potential stressors in cats - the ultimate checklist six surefire strategies to reduce stress in cats  
 i agree that you should let him hide if he wants to. maybe slow down the process awhile, certainly wait to progress until he is eating normally, acting mostly normally. try as much as possible to keep his routine. i heard lavishing more attention and acting different when a new cat comes contributes to the stress of the resident cat. they need it to be as normal as possible so the new cat doesn't threaten their way of life.  it also may help if you dont hover or watch to see if he eats it right away, leave it there so he can slink out and get it. this helped when my new kitten wouldn't eat the first day or two, she would eat, but on;y if i acted like i wasn't watching her.  
 i'm sorry you lost one of your babies  we use the feliway plug ins. they really seem to help. i was getting them from my vet but they are actually much cheaper on amazon. they might help with the transition. there is spray also available.   
 not enough holy basil to help me at the moment.   classical music has been playing since this afternoon. interesting thought about the bed. it's just so hard to get them out if we needed to. and he can't be tricked with treats. there's plenty of other hiding places. but maybe the bed is his go-to place.   
 my cat marshmallow is very dear to me, but everytime i spend the night away from her she drives the rest of my household off the walls. persistent yowling, and meowing, and although she is a very vocal kitty, my parents often describe it as she is searching for me. she also openly attacks and aggravates the other house cats to the point that leave my parents and siblings frustrated. i wish i could bring her with me, but my boyfriend doesnt live in pet-friendly apartments and even then marshie despises him to the point of "marking" her territory on my leg. she will spray and all in all annoy and terrorize while i am away. we have tried anti-anxiety pills our vet prescribed her, but they often either subdue her for only an hour or two, or not work at all. the vet also recommended using feliway, which are cat hormones. but they have not yielded any results. i desperately love my kitty, but i want to be able to spend time away from home without my family becoming agitated at her while i am. is there anything i can do to calm and comfort marshmallow that doesnt have an expensive price tag attached?  
 hi! this is temporary and might not be helpful, but have you tried leaving articles of worn unwashed clothing for her?  the thing is i think you may need to try and have your bf come over and be the giver of good things; treats, food, play time with you both.  i don't know if there's anything in the article, but what if you also worked with her so that another family member becomes a giver of good things too?  you could possibly be moving in with your boyfriend at some point, and getting your kitty to accept him now could be important.   separation anxiety in cats  
 hello from portugal i have a 2 months old beautiful scottish straight blue and the boy is giving me an hard time. he knows how to use the litter without any problem but when he seems to forget it when on the living room. he always tries or does defecate on the carpets. this evening he did it 5 time (yes five) and i'm getting desperate with this as my living room already smells like a dumpster eventhough we always try to clean everything thoroughly including with a bioenzimatic cleaner. the litter is always spotless and we keep removing the urine and fezes. we use absorbent sand.  why is the kitten doing this and can you give me some ideas to help preventing it as i'm really inexperience. thank you in advance  
 the litterbox, however undesirably located is better than the floor, but if it is in a bad location, you can start it there, and start slowly moving it somewhere less objectionable.  if you can't, you can't, but i just wanted to clarify that placing a litterbox in the spot doesn't have to be a permanent solution, so much as a way to help get things back under control.  
  hello and welcome to tcs. congrats on the new kitten. two months is still pretty young, so litter box accidents are not uncommon. however, defecating 5 times a day seems excessive. and since it's like he needs to go "urgently" it's no wonder he can't make it to the litter box.   how long have you had him? has he been dewormed? does he ever defecate in the litter box?  since he's so young, he doesn't need access to the entire house. so i'd keep all doors closed that you can. and maybe even put him in a kitten-proofed room, with food, water, litter box and toys, when you leave the house.  it also sounds a bit like a food allergy. maybe try different kitten foods and flavours.  hopefully he'll feel better, and start using the litter box regularly soon.   btw, can we see a pic of the sweet little boy.  how to add a picture to your forum post  
 thank you very much.  yes, he does defecate a lot. 5 times was just over that evening because over the 24 hours de does it perhaps 7 or 8 times.  i have him since the 10th of october and the breeder also gave me a vet book (don't know the correct name sorry) which shows that the internal and external dewormed treatment done just a couple of days before, e.g., on the 8th of october. this breeder had a lot of kittens around and on cages, not in the best conditions, especially hygienic, but i have to trust that it was really dewormed as its stamped and signed by a vet....  also, i took him to the vet already to take the first shots and she decided not to do that day as i have mentioned the frequently evacuation and sometimes very soft and almost diarreia. she prescribed something to help regulate the stomach.  next friday i have a new vet consult and the kitten is going to take the first shots if all is well.  i'm trying to rule out any disease as the kitten is very happy and always playing around, especially with the kids. goes crazy with them.  i'm sure that if something was wrong he would be a bit prostrated and not so social....  he does use the litterbox almost 99% of the times, but when he is in the living room he seems to forget that he has a litterbox and this is what puzzles me. added to my inexperience i cannot seem to find a relation on his behaviour.   at this stage he only has access to the living room when we are at home.  when we are away, living room and bedrooms are closed. he is free to use the rest of the house and no accidents so far.  the kitten is called jack, jack daniels  and here are some photos of the naughty one        
 haven't mentioned, but every morning i feed as follows: - soup spoon of canned food - 40g of dry food  each type of food in individual bowls. he devours the canned food and then he eats the dry food almost to the end up to next morning.  
 what a paws-itively, adorable little fluffball.   
 some cats just like to play with a certain kind of cat so keep trying different toys - balls of all kinds including golf balls, crinkle balls, and sparkle balls, yeoww catnip toys, crumpled paper, cardboard box with holes cut out, plastic milk caps and rings, q tips, plastic straws . one of my cats favorites is a plastic shopping bag which she uses to bury and then hunt out her toys.  
 does your cat play with items that aren't toys...and aren't your feet? mine loves to play, and loves her toys, but she also really enjoys pouncing on a pile of pet blankets and stealing my socks to run around the apartment with. last night, one of my sweaters mysteriously disappeared from the drying rack and wound up in the hallway. dunno what that was all about. my previous cat also loved ponytail holders and those little plastic rings from milk jugs. if your cat isn't into normal toys, maybe he'll find something else to play with if you discourage him from going for your feet and he's forced to find an alternative.  
 the ping pong balls are a good suggestion. if your cat is a bit standoffish, you might try the ping pong balls in the bathtub or shower so she can play by herself.   my two go nuts for dowel rods. according to them, a dowel rod is the best thing since flush toilets and sliced bread. i keep a supply for them to play with around the house, as they often break the little ones (which they seem to like best). i'm always worried about splinters, but it never seems to happen. you might try that.  
 dowel rods - would never have thought of these as a toy. i love this as it goes to the point i was trying to make that sometimes a cats idea of the greatest toy in the world may be different than ours. give them lots of options, pay attention to what seems to interest them and you will find something they like to play with.   
 there's one other thought i have, well, three actually, because the big guy was somewhat the same way, and at his slightly sagely age, he needs his action time lol.  what about real fur mice? there's an online store called catsnus . com that sells retro and classic toys and this is where we finally found a replacement mousie for his favorite that came with him from his original household.  the other is partly due to another member's mentioning she washed the toys to try and freshen the catnip. somewhat short of that, i took a catnip filled fish and ran it under the faucet to wet it, and he went bonkers for it, for a couple days no less which was quite the deal.  the other is instead of catnip, what about honeysuckle toys? i see that some of the smaller online stores aren't carrying them anymore or are closed but at a quick glance ebay, amazon and etsy have some and if you're outside the us madaboutcats and kittykottage also carry items.  
 this was a hit: http://a.co/j3psm1x  its rabbit. only downside is that there is no weight to them so they are hard to throw.   
 your cat doesn’t like the laser pointer? your cat may be broken.   
   
 be careful with the hair ties, some cats will insist on eating them and that is the path to the vet.  sweet gum, who liked attacking feet best, accepted as a poor substitute but a substitute plastic bendy straws, one pack is enough for several cats, share with your friends. she also enjoys more than any other ball small balls made from soft silver foil liners in packages, the inside of frosting cans. foil from the roller seems to be too hard, but i think she likes the glitter.  now that she's older she'll chase small balls with bells in them.  
 the red dot and ping -pong balls are toys my cats reliably go for.  
 so sorry. how long has your cat been missing? you can try putting some of his used litter outside and some unwashed pieces so he may be able to recognize the scent of,home. you can also try a trap, baited with his favorite food. also, if you have animal control or humane society in your area check with them.  
 so sorry, one of my cats went missing last year and someone had ended up finding him and bringing him home 4 months later! he was an indoor cat and front declawed, i was sure he wouldn’t have survived that long on his own. cats are savvy creatures! at the time he went missing, he and my other cat (his brother) had never been separated and were very close. someone suggested to me to put my other cat in a carrier and take him out looking with me, so the missing brother would hear his cry and hopefully come out of hiding. ‍♀️  
 i'm so sorry to hear that. when toffee and fudge first started to venture outside, they were gone for a few hours and i was so panicked and worried that they might be missing, however fortunately they came back, so i can't begin to imagine how you must be feeling right now. if your cat isn't home by this evening or tomorrow morning, you could try putting up "missing" notices in your neighbourhood or post a search appeal on social media. when searching for your cat i'd bring a packet of treats or open packet/tin of cat food as that usually gets toffee and fudge coming inside after they've been outdoors. i hope your cat turns up soon.  
 oh no, i am so sorry. a few months ago a cat of my friend decided to live outdoor, and has not appeared at home yet. however a few neighbours have seen her near the house.  
 i have a 5 month old kitten and he’s a sweetheart. when he first wakes up, he’s very cuddly and sweet. however, he just has so much energy! sometimes he latches onto my arm and bites and kicks and scratches. my arm gets all beat up and has red marks. some of the scratches are deeper. i’ve tried to not move my arm so he’ll let go but sometimes he just keeps going at it and it hurts! he also will attack my legs. like climb up them and bite them and scratch them. sometimes someone will be petting him and he’ll grab their hand and bite and scratch it. i don’t think he’s being aggressive, i think he’s playing. but it’s too much.   yes, i have regular interactive play sessions with him. every morning we play with him for 15-30 mins, again in the afternoon, maybe twice in the afternoon, and for around 20 mins before bed. all in all probably at least an hour of playtime a day, most likely a lot more. but it seems like it’s not enough! he always wants to run around and “play” attack us. i genuinely believe it’s not real aggression (no hissing, spitting, growling). i think he just sees me and my family as littermates and he wants to play. but i’m all beat up with scratches and bites because of it.   i don’t encourage his behavior. i say “no” and will put him in a room sometimes. sometimes i can’t pick him up when he’s in “attack” mode because he just latches on to my arm and shakes his head (so his teeth scratch my arm all over).   what can i do?? i can’t get another kitten, he’s already a handful. i have a dog, but he just chases my dog and my dog runs away (my dog is very much afraid of cats and doesn’t come near him). i notice he tries to play with my dog but my dog just gets scared and hides.   how can i stop his play aggression?  
 hi! along with the great advice above, can you try playing some low volume music for him? he's in a new environment, confusing to him (he was able to scratch whatever and whenever in the other place) and he may need a little help calming down. either the app relax my cat or kusc.org.  instead of the word no, could you try a hiss? that would be more of a "language" he'd understand.  
 i have a 25 yr old cat that i rescued from the street as a kitten. he has been a mostly indoor cat his whole life. goes out on the deck, but not exploring. for the past year, he has been meowing all the time. he thinks he is hungry and will not shut up till i feed him. he does not have many teeth left, so i have to hand feed him from a fork. i give him 1/2 can in the morning, then another 1/2 can when i get home from work. for the rest of the evening, he meows for more food. if i overfeed him, he poops all over the house.  the pooping is another issue. he has constant watery diarrhea. vet has given him many different things, none work. he has elderly cat ibs, i guess. i think he is not digesting his food and is it just running thru him. vets (have taken him to 2 different vets) both said he is elderly and his behavior is normal for a very old cat. and that i must be doing something right that he has lived so long.  anyone have any advice? the only thing he has officially been diagnosed with is arthritis and kidney issues. is it time for him to go to the rainbow bridge. the vet had no recommendations. i live in a small town in wv, vets are great with livestock, but cats, not so much.   
 mine is 15 and before her "sister" passed away a few months ago, they would groom each other sometimes and other times one might smack the other and hiss if they got too close. cats are weird and territorial. just how they are.  
 why does my cat act like a bengal cat? his personality is like bengal cat. he runs like one and is pretty wild. fast and jumps high. could he be part bengal?  
 how old is your cat? this might explain some of his active behavior. regarding your question about him being part bengal it would help to see a pic of him. here is an article about the bengal breed: bengal cats you may find this article about the ultimate behavior of cats helpful since it addresses some of the questions you asked: why do cats...? the ultimate guide to feline behavior  
 i’m also curious how old he is. most young cats are very active. all cats have their own unique personalities, so there is quite a bit of variation in the domestic shorthair/longhair population, as well as in individual breeds.   you might find this article interesting:  how to tell your cat's breed by its behavior  if you post a picture of your cat in this forum: describing cats - what does my cat look like?, we can help you figure out how to best describe your kitty, and see if he looks like any specific breeds.  
 i know many people at this site recommend calming substances, but as far as i know there is no science behind them, except for maybe feliway. my advice is to read those posts that furballsmom recommended and watch one of jackson galaxy's episodes of my cat from hell where he does a cat introduction and consider carefully whether you followed all the steps and didn't rush the process. did you start by feeding at opposite sides of a closed door, then used a covered baby gate so they could not see each other? then gradually reduced the cover? it's possible you rushed a step of the process. you say there were "no real instances," but were they totally calm before you introduced them?  are you site swapping for at least an hour a day (l in the sanctuary room, a & j outside)?  does l have anxiety issues that predate the arrival of a and j? a vet visit might be a good idea.  have you been playing enough with the cats to get them tired out and reduce their stress? ideally you get someone to help you and play on both sides of the door at once.  do you have enough cat trees and scratching posts?  to your point about not feeling a connection with a and j: it sounds like they have not yet had a chance to spend much time with you and show you their special qualities. in my experience it can take a year or more to develop a close relationship with an animal (or a person for that matter) because you have to find meaning in each other's body language and tone of voice. so i bet you will come to love a and j once you get to know them.  
 re calming substances: they seem to either work very, very well or not at all, and which ones work how varies from cat to cat. i've seen some remarkable successes and some spectacular and epic fails.  
 thank you for the responses. i have purchased vetri-science’s composure to give it a try. if i don’t see a response i’ll probably try one of the other brands recommended or a collar. i had no idea there were that many products out there!  in response to ravenclaws questions, we did start feeding on opposite sides of a closed door, then used a covered baby gate and gradually raised the cover so they could see each other. eventually they were eating on opposite sides of an uncovered baby gate. i might have rushed this though. l never hung around long once food was gone and one-time j did start to heavy breath, almost like she was taking deep breathes and blowing it out. she did this a few times right when we first got her so it might be something she does when she’s stressed.  we were not site swapping at least an hour a day. we did site swap every now and then with l in a and j’s room. however, we typically left l in the master bedroom since he would just cry and meow the whole time he was in a and j’s room. a and j had full range of the house except for the master bedroom where l was. this go around i will make sure to put l in a and j’s room and let a and j have roam on the master bedroom.  we never noticed l having anxiety issues before a and j’s arrival. l was a super laid-back cat and was super chill in every situation. of course, about a year ago he started knocking things off the counters and meowing relentlessly. that’s why we thought getting another cat would be beneficial for l.  we are trying to play enough with all the cats. a is high energy and we can never seem to tire him out. j is moderately active, but a will always want to be involved in what j’s doing so she gets pushed out of play time. we’ve tried to separate them so j gets plenty of play, but she isn’t as easily interested as a. any thoughts on how to keep a nosy cat out of another cats play time?  l is kind of a loaf when it comes to playing. he might play for a few minutes with a laser pointer or a string toy and then he’ll just walk off. we have always had a hard time keeping him interested with anything so getting him to play on the other side of the baby gate seems impossible. are there any recommendations on how to get a non-interested cat excited about play time?  we probably don’t have enough cat trees or scratching posts. i just purchased another scratching post and hopefully they will start using it. i’m also looking at getting another cat and/or some shelves on the wall. all of them seem to like being up high.  
 giving them ways to get up high should help, good on you!   umm, thinking out loud --can you have someone else distract the nosy cat? or continue to separate a into another room maybe... one toy mentioned on this site that can work is the magneticat. there's also the ripple rug, or you could look into food puzzles.  some of these below are more general but still might have something helpful;  how to make your home bigger (at least for your cats)  how to build a diy cat cave from cardboard  cat trees: 12 designs that will make you go "wow!"  15 awesome cat caves that are practical, beautiful and fun  9 grass growing kits that will make your cat happy  8 superb automated cat toys that you're going to love!    
 when my kittens were 5 months they couldn’t find stuff in my hands or treats i’d point to. now that they are 9. they have no issues. your cat doesn’t see it.  
 shake/rattle it in your hand. movement is easier for them to see.  
 hello, i have two cats, male (two and a half old) and female ( two years old).. both castrated/neutered, had them since they were 4 months old.  the male cat started urinating right near any closed doors (they are not allowed in the hallway to the bedrooms so he urinated right at the door). the same happened in my previous apartment (door that's closed). sometimes he urinates in the litter box (there are 4 in the house- constantly kept clean and tried different litter) while other times he goes on the floor- haven't found the pattern there yet. after multiple visits to the vet, they can't find anything medically wrong.  i have tried putting food and water near the door, tin foil, spraying citrus smells cats are supposed to not like, basically anything i found online.  i've put training pads in that area, so he urinates on it and then sits on the pad.. is that normal? any idea what is causing this and/or how to stop it?  i'm desperate... any advice is welcomed. thanks!   
 i would guess it's a territory thing. is there any way you could just let him have the run of the house? i would think he is trying to spread/blend his scent into the areas that he can smell are still "his house" (because of your (and others in the household?) scents that come from there), but is not allowed to have access to.  
 do you use an enzyme cleaner in those pee spots? if he can still smell himself, he'll want to continue peeing there.  
 is he getting enough canned food? my boy cat gets pee problems when he eats too much dry food.  
 jem- i will definitely try that.. if the usual didn't help.. maybe this will  thanks! and he is not declawed   marmoset- he does cover his pee.. so i don't think itit's that. i have tried with smell, without smell, sand (use larger pieces some smaller), crystals, pine..   maggiedemi- i am feeding him renal dry food that makes them produce more urine.. based on the amount of pee in the litter- its working  
 if it were me, i would ask the vet if i could switch to canned food.  
 this is also a little off the wall, but i have had cats use the puppy pee pads. in fact, if you google reviews of some on chewy.com you will see that many people have used them for incontinent or sick cats. that might be an idea; see if he wants to use them. i have also had cats who used the boxes to poop, but peed elsewhere.  
 hi all, i have joined today to ask a question around my cat's behaviour  she is around 8yrs old, a rescue with a nervous disposition. we've had her for 5yrs.  sometimes during the night she wakes us up by coming into the bedroom crying. i say crying because it's a really hollow and sad sounding yowl, not like any noise she makes during the day time. she won't stop until she's comforted- sometimes calling out to her works, but sometimes i have to get out of bed and fuss her. the first time she ever did this was after we left her alone overnight for the first time, but she now does it on and off even when we haven't been away.  is this just nervous behaviour, her wanting to reassure herself that we are still here? or something else? she is clearly wanting us as she comes into the bedroom to do it, she's not yowling out of the window at other cats or anything (she hates other cats). she isn't asking for food or asking to play as she has specific behaviours for that.  
 thank you, glad to know it's not just my little girl! she is quite clingy so it could definitely be loneliness. all she wants is a fuss usually (although sometimes then she is like 'well now you are awake how about playing with me'!)   
 my skittish sqeeker, who doesn't allow cuddles out of bed, will sometimes do that in the middle of the night. i'll call to him and usually he'll come for a cuddle but if he doesn't i don't get out of bed.   at 8yrs she could have a little arthritis. can you put a hassock next to the bed to make sure she can get up?  
 yes my girl sounds inconsolable too! she won't wear a collar (probably because she never had one before we adopted her) so sadly can't try that. the one time we tried one on here she freaked the heck out and got herself all stuck in it    susanm9006 said: ↑  cats love routine and habits and are experts at figuring out what gets them what they want. you probably don’t want to live the next decade with a cat yowling at you in the middle of the night so as much as this girl wants attention, you don’t want to reward her when she does. so when she wakes you up, you first you warn her with calling her name or telling her “quiet, bedtime” or such and then if she continues to yowl, you pick her up without talking or cuddles and shut her outside your room until you are ready to get up. every single time, no matter how long she fusses outside your door. it will work if you are consistent.click to expand...  i am sure you are totally right but honestly i don't have the heart to ignore her or shut her out. she had a hard start in life before we adopted her and it took a long time to earn her trust, so we let her get away with murder. i'd rather have disturbed sleep than upset her (now i'm aware i sound like a crazy cat lady!)    lisannez said: ↑  if this is a new behavior i would be more concerned. have you changed anything recently? my friend had two cats, and all of the sudden one started yeowling at night, she was 11 years old never done it before. my friend figured out that she was having a hard time seeing, her night eyesight was getting bad. so she was actually getting lost in the house that she had known for all those years, she could not find her way back and was scared. maybe that? i know that she got some plug ins that helped calm here and she no longer let her roam at night, she kept her in the bedroom, put the litter box in the adjacent bathroom and shut the door. that solved it.click to expand...  not a new behaviour- she's done it for years, although it's on and off. usually it's after we've been away for a night, although this time we hadn't been. we did move house 6 months ago but after the first few weeks she settled in nicely.    hellenww said: ↑  my skittish sqeeker, who doesn't allow cuddles out of bed, will sometimes do that in the middle of the night. i'll call to him and usually he'll come for a cuddle but if he doesn't i don't get out of bed.  at 8yrs she could have a little arthritis. can you put a hassock next to the bed to make sure she can get up?click to expand...  she isn't the most agile of cats in general but has no problems jumping up on the windowsill which is higher than our bed so hopefully no arthritis. she isn't a cuddly cat and only ever jumps on the bed to bug us to wake up in the morning- when she's doing the wailing she does it from the floor or the hallway    rcm mom said: ↑  my rupert does this when we go to bed, think he just does not want to be left alone. once he finds us all is fine.click to expand...  aww bless him. i think this is the most likely case and she just doesn't want to be alone.  thank you for all the replies- it's interesting to see she's not the only kitty who does this and that it's nothing major to worry about hopefully.   
 oh really? i read that wet food shouldn't be left out for more than 2 hours. the lickimat looks great! i've been looking for a wet food puzzle.  i'm working on training to get on a leash. i think that would be great to get his energy out.  
 seems like i will have to endure biting for a while until he gets it..   
 hello justj, we are so  to hear about your kitty  hope both you and your other kitty feel better soon.   here's an article for you to read that may help you :-   do-cats-mourn.32396   
 i do hope he gets over it quickly too.   you may want to pay a tribute to your kitty and you may do so here in :-  crossing-the-bridge.19   
 @marmoset @kflowers @rubysmama   i’ve been trying out some things with my cat like acting normally and treating him normally. but i have found myself sometimes wanting to treat him like i did my other cat since the two were very different personality wise. while my late baby was very gentle and never bit anyone in his life, his brother is more of a diva. he only likes petting and cuddles to a certain degree before he gives a warning that he’s had enough or lashes out if he’s in a bad mood. you are right, this is taking such a long time and every time i think about him i cry. some people don’t understand that the bond we have with our cats is very much like our human family. that’s why i’m so grateful for this site with people like you who truly understand how much we all love and cherish our cats more than just a pet.  my cat is still looking around the house for his brother and last night he slept in my bed with me for a few hours and he’s never done that before. instead of giving him space should we be around him more a lot? always have him constantly with us? i feel terrible leaving him alone in the house without his brother who was always there for him and at night. when we all went to bed he and his brother would go to their own little cat beds right next to each other at the end of the hall, but now it’s just the one. i worry if it’s possible that he’ll be lonely at night or during the times we are all out of the house.  but so far he’s been eating just fine and going the bathroom. he’s still very much active around all of us but i do think he’s thrown off with his brother suddenly gone. the bed his brother passed in is sitting in another room rather than its old spot right next to the other cat bed. my cat sniffed it from afar but didn’t get too close and left the room after that so i’m not sure if he got anything out of that as to what had happened.   i’m planning to writing my tribute for my baby here on this site this weekend or this week. i wanted to give it good thought and when my emotions were slightly calmer because i wanted to show everyone my baby and feel like they knew him too and give him a proper send off until i hopefully see him again one day.  
 sending you hugs, hon.    i'm glad you found tcs and fellow cat parents who understand the loss you are feeling. my parents had a cat when i was born, so i never knew life without a feline family member, and for that reason, i considered all cats, exactly that, a family member.   i think giving your cat all the attention he'll put up with should be fine. poor little guy. i teared up reading about him and his brother's cat beds in the hall.   
 yes, give him all the attention he wants right now. you can't be his brother but you can help fill the empty space. that he came to sleep with proves he needs you with him. sometimes with him will simply be being in the same room, not touching, just being there, maybe looking out the window or napping, but there.  as for pets, he maybe sensitive and easily overstimulated but that doesn't mean he doesn't want pets. on the other hand, sweet gum reacted the same way. i had the vet do a full body x-ray and we discovered she had a patch of arthritis on her spine at less that a year old. i started giving her dasuquin (joint care) she straightened her back for the first time, i hadn't realized it wasn't straight and neither had the vet. she became less swatty within a week. it's just something to consider. when you are grieving the physical pains are harder to ignore.  
 @jem: i am so so so sorry for your losses.  rip sweet kitties.   
 i've lost five cats since 2015 and my last large dog. three of the cats each died a month apart from may to july 2015. all the remaining cats and my last and now current dogs grieved each one that passed. some stopped eating, some were extra clingy.  the one cat that i had euthanized at home all the other pets got to sniff and say goodbye to and they seemed to have the easiest time grieving her. when my inky died june 5 2017 i let my current dog sniff his body at the vet hospital but my dog refused and was devastated refusing to eat or play for almost two months. my remaining two cats were depressed and clingy sleeping in inkys favorite spots and his favorite toy mouse began moving around the apartment. one of them was playing with it or moving it around i don't know who . no one else er touched that mouse in years except inky.  i'm sorry for your loss. my beloved skye (aka lovey) has cancer now and i'm caring for him day and night. my other cat and dog are with him day and night. every time he gets hospitalized they won't eat and are depressed. the dog goes along on vet visits and won't even let the vets take lovey out of the exam room for tests anymore without getting agitated and blocking them.  
 @rubysmama @kflowers we have kept everything of his brother’s around the house except the bed. i wasn’t sure if i should have him sniff it more than he has already or not. he spends much more time with us now than he used to. he’s around us a lot more and we try to give him a lot of love if he allows it. i noticed he rarely sleeps in his own bed and moves around a lot from place to place, nap place wise.   looking at the cat beds is difficult for me. it’s only been a few days but i keep remembering all these different memories of my baby now that he isn’t here. the house and world just doesn’t feel right without him, everything feels wrong or surreal. thank you guys for caring for the well being of my remaining cat so we do everything we can to take care of him and have him live the long life he should have had with his brother.  
 @jem @inkysmom   i’m not going to lie, i teared up a lot reading both of your brave kitty’s stories. reading what you went through along with the grief and hardships your cats felt, it reminds me of just how strong these wonderful felines are. it’s not right that these innocent and pure kitties have to go through this and my heart really goes out to both of your cats. as short or long their lives have been, their lives were filled with love and companionship which really is the most important things in life. it’s that fact that reduces my own regret and i really do hope and pray that you get to be reunited with your beloved cats again one day. both of you must have suffered enough yourselves and i hope that you are getting through that as well. this is so hard, to me this is the worst pain in the world so i really admire that you were kind enough to share your stories with me as well as help give me some perspective on what to do with my still living baby and he appreciates this too.  if you are ever willing, i’d love to hear more about your sweet kitties or read about them somewhere. i’d like to keep their memories alive along with you.  
 jem that's an amazing story, made me tear up but chewy sounds like he was an amazing cat. some animals are really caretakers and some become caretakers when they have a strong bond. my little ruby was very bonded to inky especially after inkys best buddy fawn and his beloved girlfriend mandy died only a month apart. inky got very sick, i think because he was so depressed he just gave up. the day i brought home mandy's empty carrier after she died he raced to the door hoping she was finally home from the hospital after five days. he saw it was empty and me crying and my last dog quiet and sad and he let out this loud cry as if someone had hit or burned him. he lost his feistiness after that for a while. then his buddy fawn got sick and also died a month later. lovey was also devoted to mandy, i adopted them together from the shelter, he was a five month old kitten and she was a five year old gentle giant 18 pound cat that no one wanted. she groomed him and held him down like a kitten and cuddled with him. when i took in inky and fawn a year or so later, inky fell in love with her and followed her everywhere, rubbing against her and just cuddling and lying on her even when she'd eat. she tolerated him but would cuff him away to let her eat. he even followed her onto my bed at a safe distance watching in horror as she cuddled and laid on top of me and cuddled with lovey.  years later little kitten ruby was adopted and he and lovey became instant best buddies, the dynamic duo, torturing and wreaking havoc on the other lazy older cats. mandy, the elegant queen, sent each flying across the room and shaking their heads with one right or left hook so they learned not to mess with her. inky and lovey eventually learned to coexist and tolerate each other but never really bonded. there was always competition for mandy. then competition for ruby who became close to both, then constant competition for me as i tamed inky. lovey always has to be closest to me and wants all the attention. he will race over when i call any animal and literally push between me and the dog or any other cat and cuff them away sneakily if he can.  ruby used to push away and steal food from past dying cats that he wasn't particularly close to. with inky and now lovey being sick, he'll still eat extra food, but will cuddle and hover around a sick buddy, wash and groom them, follow them everywhere and watch them constantly.  so will my dog who found cancer on inky and instantly finds any infection or injuries on anyone he meets and sniffs and points it out. he hovered nonstop over inky. now he won't let lovey leave the exam room at the vet because he hates it when he's hospitalized. when he is hospitalized, ruby and the dog won't eat and mope and lie silently around. when my ancient horse was very sick and almost died over a year ago she would lie down and refuse to get up and i was terrified that she was dying right in front me. nothing i did would make her try to get up or do anything except lie flat out groaning. her son who's very bonded to her was frantic. he nudged her gently with his nose calling to her, then butted her harder with his head calling louder, then started nudging her harder and harder with his foot literally screaming at her. between the two of us we got her up each time and she made a miraculous recovery thanks to excellent care, my pure stubbornness and an amazing vet. she's fine and feisty as ever now but seeing her son so frantic broke my heart even more than the fear of losing her which was already devastating. i've seen and heard of so many examples of the bonds animals have for each other as well as with people. the ones who think animals don't have emotions and feelings are just really clueless and sad to me.  
 i don't dwell on the future, but do from time to time think about what will come someday. i just hope that someday is still far in the future. i do love my ruby with all my heart, and feel so lucky that she needed a home at the same time i was looking for a cat.     justj said: ↑  i also finally wrote up something for my cat in the crossing the bridge section.click to expand...  it's beautiful.  and i'm sure was hard to write, and brought lots of tears.  i teared up myself reading it, which is why i tend to avoid the ctb forum. just so much heartbreak.   i posted a short reply, so will see when it receives more replies. so do post more about snowball when/if you feel up to it, and think of special memories you'd like to share.    
 hi! set up a litter box with sandy litter, some unfertilized potting soil, and some leaves and little twigs from outside. maybe even a large tray, in other words something without tall sides. lol we were typing at the same time   
 hey!  it's been off for about 3 hours now, we left him on his own for a little so he can re-adjust to everything.  i've tried doing this with water and food! he just isn't interested.   
 i have a 4 year old orange tabby that i adopted about 2 months ago. he’s always been active and a little tyrant, but we’ve gotten used to each other and worked that out. however, the past week or two, he has been constantly begging to go out on our screened in patio. i don’t mind having him out there because he’s easy to watch and he has had all his vaccinations, flea meds, etc, but i cannot take the constant begging. from the time i wake up at 6 am to the time i go to bed at 11 pm, he is begging to go out there. he has a cat condo inside, cat grass and catnip growing inside, we play multiple times a day, but nothing seems to give. i feel bad because i know our apartment is small and i want to let him out there, but i don’t want him to think the whining is okay, especially since he has resorted to knocking things over and howling. even knocked over a floor lamp this morning that he has never touched before. i need some solutions.  
 hi everybody,   yes, he is neutered. i think i will try letting him out there on a schedule. after all, i don’t mind him being out there, just can’t stand the whining and knocking things over when he doesn’t get his way.  
 i used to have stray cats that would come by at night. then my cats would paw at the door. if it's that keep your blinds closed.  
 you're wonderful for working with him, let us know how things go, if there are any hiccups that might need to be addressed, and of course give us an update if things work  since we're a bunch of worryworts around here lol  
 within the last couple of days, we adopted a one and a half year old male cat from a coworker (they adopted him from the local shelter). we have tried everything we know - and many additional things we have read about - to try reduce this poor guys' stress but nothing seems to help.  his stuff is in our bedroom - litterbox and his 'comfort-box' is in our walk-in closet which is connected to our bathroom but it is also open to our bedroom; so a smaller area that is open to a bigger area. since we have gotten him, he hides under our bed or - if he leaves the bedroom - in a kitchen cabinet. he eats, drinks, and uses the litterbox; though we did have to put the food/water under the bed with him.  he is acting extremely stressed. if you look in his direction, he hisses. if you get within a few feet of him (to feed him, to try and entice him with a toy, to show him a treat) he attacks - hissing and spitting with claws. we'll talk to in calm voices. when he attacks we don't yell or anything, we just make sure that his food/water didn't tip over and leave him be. we're trying to give him plenty of space but also trying to balance it out with just enough attention to say "hey, we're here, we won't hurt you, we're not trying to scare you, and we want to take care of you." even the 'destressing' herbal remedies (drops in his water, treats, the spray).  we've thought about taking the bed off of the metal frame and locking him in our room which would kind of force him to interact with us (he would still have the walk-in closet and his 'safebox' to escape to), but i don't want to stress him out worse and completely ruin any chance at building a relationship with him, either.  he has a huge cat tree, two scratching posts, a huge box of toys, and several other things that came with him from his previous home. we have those things in the bedroom, in the closet, and in the living room so he would have his sent in several areas.  we know this is not his normal behavior since we'd seen his behavior in his previous home and while he was a little shy, he was in no way aggressive so we're certain this is stress induced behavior from being in a new and unfamiliar home. i am very concerned about any the effect the high stress level will have on this poor guy.  any suggestions to try to help him out? i know it's going to take lots of time and patience - that we have - but, again, i'm concerned about long-term effects this could have on him.  please help! thanks!  
 it is actually very normal behavior for a scared cat in a new environment. you need to give him time, which might be days or weeks or even longer for him to feel safe. in the meantime, do not force interactions or get close to him. he will come out and come to you when he is ready to and any attempt to hurry that will only make him retreat and make his settling in period longer. you can talk to him softly from wherever you are and try offering treats but don’t expect he will come out to get them while you are present.  
 i so agree. a couple of days is nothing when dealing with a shy, stressed cat. patience is the best weapon you have in your arsenal. how long will it take? well...until. each cat is different. one additional thing that you can do is to sit in the room with him, pretty much ignoring him, but speaking aloud. reading is a good way to do this. just use a quiet, calm voice. that will allow him to get used to the sight, scent, and sound of you in a non-threatening manner.  
 it took a couple of mine two months or more to start feeling less stressed. don't approach him, put his bowl down and leave. he will eventually come to you - changing environments scares them.  
 hi! hang in there, time should take care of a lot of things.  you'll have to contain the kitten now and then so you can spend time with your other kitty.  can you double-check with your vet if some plain pumpkin will help with the soft poops?  also, give your kitten a ticking clock (if it's too loud you can muffle it with a towel) and a little nest that has a heating pad set on low and covered with a couple towels.  i'm not suggesting these are perfect answers, but hopefully they help you!  
 a 16wk kitten is much like a toddler. he will grow more independent as he gets older. he does need lots of love and cuddles right now.   setting up a quiet place in the bathroom/bedroom with a bed, food, water, and a litter box for a few hrs a day is ok to give everyone a break.  
 cats are said to sleep 16 hours a day. lots of people have an only cat in a small place; cats are very adaptable. a playmate, even though not essential, would still be nice for your current cat, but i wasn't kidding, two kittens in a studio is very tough on the human. i would never do that again.  
 here's some tcs articles that might be helpful:  bored cat? what cat owners need to know (including 10 actionable tips) how to make your home bigger (at least for your cats) playing with your cat: 10 things you need to know your second cat: how to choose the best friend for kitty  
 have you read up on how to introduce two cats properly? this would be next to impossible to do in a very small studio space. so please consider this as you think about how you would integrate a new cat into your home. if the cats didn't get along immediately, you wouldn't have a lot of options in terms of doing a re-introduction or separating them.  my first cat grew up as an only cat in a small studio apartment, and was perfectly entertained by climbing the loft bed and watching passers-by out the window. i second the previous posts that advised you to maximize vertical space. consider a window perch if you don't already have a nice comfy space for your cat to look out the window.  
 hmmm, looks like my post is getting outvoted, but my point is that your kitty doesn't sound to me as though it is having any problems. it is content, (rather than tearing through your living space to the point that your toilet paper, paper towels, knick knacks, kitchen counters, sofa and chair coverings etc etc aren't safe from an overactive hyper kitten). instead, your baby is happily napping.  i don't think you need another cat right now, due to that, plus time and space constraints.  maybe later on after you move and have more space   
 she’s not spayed yet—the vet wants to wait until she’s six months, which will be in november.   
 btw their "cat play fighting" can seem scary and loud sometimes. if there is no bloodshed and awhile after it gets loud and crazy they are back to their normal selves then it is all perfectly fine.  
 yep, this is totally normal cat behavior. whilst the noises make you nervous, i'd leave them to it. my two seem to use short sharp hisses to declare they have had enough. rough and tumble, wrestling, chasing, hissing and sometimes swatting can and actually should be part of normal play it's communication. if you are concerned about them smacking one another about over food you have a couple of options. either, continue to feed them separately or the first few times you feed them together, give both larger portions, and then gradually move the feeding closer together and reduce to their normal portion size.  we only separate ours if we see biting, and that's mainly our own anxiety kicking in. all the other interactions we see are either sniffing, pawing (no claw) swiping(no claw) and chasing.   edit ( because i accidentally pressed post d'oh) i think that so long as there are no claws or heavy biting involved in any perceived fight, you're fine. whilst it's stressful, you should leave them for a minute or so to see how it plays out, this'll help you understand their stage of their relationship. if they hiss and go in the opposite direction this is actually really positive because they've understood one another. if one hisses and the other one then launches a full assault it might be time for a time out. don't get discouraged though you've been really patient and done the groundwork and that's like 90% of the process.   
 this is pretty much it. you can't work it out. your job was to facilitate the initial meetings and destress the cats so they didn't attack each other on first sight. after a while, you just have to step back and let the cats figure things out for themselves.  your guys are doing everything "right." they take turns chasing and "fighting" it doesn't sound like one of them is blocking off the litter box or food (sort of with the food).  just take a deep breath and let them go. keep an ear open in case things get bad but it sounds like you all are on the right path.   
 unfortunetly neither of my cats have ever taken an interest in treats.   i am changing feeding habits from free grazing to certain times a day to help encourage him to come around more.  he did come out this morning and hang out for a bit with us, which was nice to see.  
 hi, i introduced a 3 week old kitten to a 6 month old kitten, both female. the older kitten was whining to see the little kitten so much that i let her see it, she then proceeded to get closer to it and then they both started to play, but eventually the little kitten wanted to sleep, the older kitten didn't really know what to do, she licked it some but didn't seem like she wanted to cuddle with the little kitten. anyways, i was wondering if the older kitten could adopt the little kitten to be her mother? i'll obviously keep feeding the kitten with formula since milk won't come out of the older kittens nipples, but could she in a way, take care of her, to be her "mother"? if so, what signs should i look for?  
 well, the older kitten is nice and all but, she plays too rough and sometimes makes the kitten squeak. when should i step in and seperate them?  
 only if the older kitten's ears are laid back and blood is being drawn. i have a 1 year old and a 5 month old--when leo first came in he was barely 3 months and angus was nearly ten months. angus was a good 9 lbs where leo was not even 5 pounds at first. angus immediately started grooming and playing with leo. they wrestle around, growling and chasing, but i've seen angus deliberately hold back with leo. he could seriously hurt leo if he wanted but he never has. he'll taunt leo with his tail, trying to get leo to attack and he'll let leo jump him in ambushes and then take off running. he'll also ambush leo and wrestle with him except he pauses to groom the areas he was just biting. it's adorable.   
 lol, @notsocrazycatlady said it best! i can't do better. and your little one will learn how to "cat" from your older one! that is invaluable.  this is ears laid back...     
 i would either bring them in in the evening or install a cat door.  
 or build a large catio for them in the yard and attach it to the house so the cats can come and go as they please, say, through a window or cat door. there are plenty of diy ideas and plans online or you can buy a pre-made one.  
 oh yes! we neutered him when he was 8 weeks old along with his brothers and spayed his mama (a semi-feral).   
 that's good. or should i say, purr-fect.    
 that is such good news! and, your little kitty is so precious! is your 5 year old your avatar pic?  
 no that’s my little brother with one of the kittens before we found his forever home. my 5 year old is a big ole stubborn guy.   
 my 4 month old half bengal won’t stop biting no matter what, i thought as he grew older he would stop. but i was wrong, his eyes are fully dilated and his ears flatten out and his bites hurt really bad! he’s a sweet kitty most of the time, so i’m not quite sure what is triggering him.. are there any tips to make this stop?  
 long story short i live in japan. my cat levi has lived with me here since he was a kitten he is now 1 year old. i have wanted to move back to america for awhile. ( been gone 8 years and miss my family, parents getting older, boss is mean to me at work and no advancement here) but i had my cat and boyfriend so i stayed. my boyfriend cheated on me for the 4th time and i broke up with him. i am now ready to go home. i will stay one more year to sell accumulated house appliances and moving problems etc.  so my cat. he is my life so i will take him with me. first he has to survive a 9 hour plane ride ( looking up companies that let cats travel in cabin with me) that is not biggest fear. i have to live with parents for awhile because i have no savings. my mom has an old female declawed cat named baba ( she is a sweetheart), an older dog ( she also sweet) and a new big crazy golden retriever puppy. ( known to chase baba) levi has never met another cat or a dog. will my baby be ok in new environment and new animals?  
 there is no way to tell. it is a situation that would cause most cats a significant level of stress, but how much stress your cat will feel and how long it will last is unknowable. some cats might get over it within a week or two, and others it might take months and months to integrate them with serious problems if you rush it.  i gather its not that big a deal to bring a pet cat into the us, but make sure you consider where you are flying into. for example, if you were flying into hawaii it would become a big deal.  
 i'm at a loss with my pickiest cat on what calming treats to give him. he rejects both that i've tried. naturvet quiet moments was a straight no. composure by vetriscience gave me hope at first, he ate one treat, but the next day turned up his nose, and hasn't gone near them since. he sees me open the bag and he walks out of the room.  i'm going on a 7 hour car trip with the boys in a couple weeks and i know they might get pretty stressed so i wanted to give them a few calming treats before we head out. but colby, my orange boy, is so darn picky. i've even tried covering the treat in his favorite hairball gel (finally got one he would eat on the 3rd try!), but he won't even lick the gel off the treats because he hates them so much.  anyone have any other suggestions? have you found something that works for your picky cats?  
 all great suggestions, thank you!  @susanm9006 he hasn't reacted to any catnip i've offered him so far (my other cat basically goes into a kitty coma). but i can always try again and hope he reacts to it!  @mamanyt1953 how would i feed him the liquid chamomile tea? i doubt he'd drink it willingly. and how strong of a calming effect does it have compared to chewable calming treats on the market? definitely something i might consider.  @brian007 i think i read on the package (or somewhere in general) that adding it to his food would dilute the effects. then again, i suppose a dilute effect is better than none! but i would also worry about turning him off of the few foods he enjoys if he tastes the calming treats in them.  
 right then, i didn't say all this last night as i was on my way to bed. but here goes...  you could try natura petz soothed and serene all systems calming capsules, which i can't vouch for per say as i don't live in the us, so haven't tried them, but i can vouch for the ingredient, valerian, contained within. it is a herbal root that has a sedative and calming action, and most cats like the smell and taste. because it's in a capsule, it is sprinklable on food. i give my cat, dudley, valerian treats, which he loves but i cannot find them available in the us. i can, however, find beaphar cat-calming spot-on, which contains valerian amongst other calming herbs and would by-pass the need for eating. i have also found some cat-calming sprays in the us that contain valerian and the one that i use is very effective, but highly smelly of stinky feet. you could spray some in his basket before and during travel.  another sprinklable thing to try are m&c vet iq serene-um calm tablets. again, i can't vouch for them but can vouch for the ingredients, including the natural amino acid and vitamin l-tryptophan and inositol, which i also give to dudley with magical effect. l-tryptophan is a precursor of serotonin and melatonin and acts as an anti-depressent, anti-anxiety, and calming sleep aid. you would have to crush the tablets between two spoons in order to sprinkle but there should be very little taste or a mildly palatable taste that could be disguised in wet food.   zylkene is another sprinklabe capsule, containing the amino acid casein, which is the soothing component found in mother's breast milk. it is quite expensive but you can buy the large dog capsules and split the powder into quarters or fifths, depending on the heaviness of your cat. a rule of thumb is 15mg of zylkene per kg of cat.   now then, again, i've not tried zylkene (yet, i have some winging it's way in the post) but i do give dudley royal canin veterinary 'calm' dry cat food, which contains both l-tryphophan and casein. it works wonders. however, the smallest bag you can buy is 2kg, so it's a bit risky as to whether he'll like it or not. but, dudley is also a super picky eater and thankfully he loves it.   also, you could get some feliway classic spray to spray in his basket before and during the journey, and also spray on yourself, so that he can smell it when you hold him. it doesn't have a perceptible smell to the human nose. it is a synthetic pheromone mimicking the natural feline facial pheremones, which are calming to cats.   dudley is a stress-head but since i've been giving him these things, he's so much happier in himself. he even comes for cuddles now, which he couldn't quite bring himself to before even though he clearly wanted to. dudley snuggling against my leg recently:       
 feliway calming travel wipes have helped my cats. i wiped down the carrier with them and then left the wipe under the pee pad in the carrier.  
 lol, well, the delivery method may be more trouble that it's worth to you. you draw it up into a syringe (no needle, of course!) or eye-dropper and inject it into his mouth by inserting the tip between his cheek and gum. just go slow and give him a chance to swallow. the effects are very mild...it more...takes the edge off rather than actually sedates.  i do a lot of herbal remedies for myself, and i use chamomile in every one of them. that relaxation allows other ingredients to work better.   
 i don't see anything that raises a red flag, the aspca indicates passion flower is non-toxic. there is a website that says there's an animal clinic in san diego that states it's toxic but on further reading i believe this is similar to when a cat eats an easter lily or other poisonous plant. a dvm based in los angeles says that valerian, kava, chamomile, and/or passion flower can be used as calming remedies in proper dosages.  
 you can use the feliway spray in the car as well. i have my carrier in the back seat, and although i spray the towel in the carrier, if i'm going on a trip of more than an hour, i spray the car's upholstery as well.  
 i love this - you all rock!!  
 hello im a cat mom to 2 cat children. one of them is an outdoor/indoor cat (yeti) and other is strictly an indoor cat (cheerio).  about a month ago, i train my kitten, with is cheerio, not to go potty outside the littler box. i praise her and treated her well. but yeasterday i found her crap in my plant. my honestly stress, i love her to death, and my dad said if she continues we will have to make her an outdoor cats, which 100% dont want.  does anyone have any tips aside locking her in a cage with her littler box. please i'm desperate.  
 you can get plastic pot inserts that sit above the soil, or put a layer of small stones/gravel on top.  how to keep a cat out of potted plants  
 how many litter boxes do you have? some cats don't like to pee and poop in the same litter, or poop in a litter that already has a pee clump in it. try putting a second litter box, but not right next to the other one, it needs to be in a different location. i agree with putting rocks in your plant to deter the behavior, but your cat might just find a new place to go if she does not want to do her pee and poo business in the same box.  
 i'm sorry but i had to laugh when i read this.  my now 18 yo cat still humps things around the house. and yes @danteshuman, his pink wee-wee is out! lol!  all i can offer you is that hopefully in time he will stop but maybe you could get him a "blow up doll". mine likes to hump those fur covered pillows, and when he's sitting with us on the couch, he'll hump the arm rest. we discourage the couch humping as much as possible by simply putting him on the floor. but if he's molesting his pillow we let him be. try getting him his own stuffed animal, blanket or pillow and direct him to that when he tries to hump you. idk, we've never been able to stop ours but he's happy and healthy otherwise, so we just accept his horny little self. we did notice though, that he does try to hump more than usual in the spring and fall, we think because he is a territorial cat, and at these times we have more animals (outside) coming around, he feels the need to be "dominant". he did have an episode of cystitis due to stress (really bad bear season) and that year he was humping all the time leading up to it. we were very diligent on stopping him then, but now, because we're not sure if it is connected (cystitis and humping as stress reducer) we don't like to punish or completely discourage his humping, if it helps him feel confident and secure in his home, just redirect it. i hope you can find something that helps your situation.  
 i have a kitten (almost a year old) who can't meow. she's never been able to meow as long as we've had her. she tries to meow but instead makes a squeaking noise that is super quiet. i was wondering if that's normal in some cats or if i should take her to the vet?  
 some cats just have tiny squeaky meows. but i would certainly have a vet check her out. cats can have throat infections like tonsillitis that can make their meow hoarse or painful.  
 i agree with the comments about getting her checked out. but here’s how mocha, one of my three, meows. you’ll have to turn up your speakers to have a hope of hearing her.  https://thecatsite.com/media/mochas-terrifying-roar.421435/  
 hello and welcome to tcs. sorry it's litter box issues that brought you here, but thank you for adopting dear little digit. i can't imagine a poor cat spending 11 years at a cat shelter. no wonder she has "issues" living in a home.   which makes me wonder if you are onto something with the idea of keeping her litter box in a kennel that gryffon can't get into. it's worth a shot, especially since she's spent most of her life peeing in a litter box in a cage. who knows, poor girl might also actually enjoy taking refuge in a kennel.  
 you know... this is why i wanted to consult with people. i never think of going backward when trying to problem-solve! this seems like a more worthy endeavor before i invest time and money into another project.     furballsmom said: ↑  do you know what's happening on the outside of that basement wall she's seeming to favor? is there anything that other critters are doing, feral/stray cats, raccoons, etc? digit can detect them even if you don't see them...that might also explain gryffon's crying at night, if i'm right.  were you the first people to live in this house? would there have been other pets from previous owners that used that area? she would be able to still smell that. you could pick up a blacklight, it will show urine stains.click to expand...  the wall she's favoring is an interior wall actually, adjoining the laundry room. she has never peed on the floor on the other side of it. there is currently a litter box there, but that was just put in place a couple of weeks ago after digit was released from solitary. i feed them separately (obviously), so we've been feeding gryffon in the laundry room. prior to that there was literally nothing there. it's kind of an odd little nook where we intend to relocate our chest freezer as soon as my wife's preoccupied husband gets around to installing an electrical outlet  the neighbors on either side of us both have dogs. but we all have fences around our back yards, and the closest any of them could get would be about 8-10 feet from the back corner of the house. i have seen a possum in the yard on occasion. though it always seems to just pass through on it's way to wherever.   you make a good point about the prior owners. they had two dogs, and lived here for nearly 20 years. i know the main and upper levels were repainted, and re-carpeted, and the wood floors were all refinished before the house went up for sale. and while it was immaculately clean when we moved in, nothing seemed to have been done to update the basement in quite some time. the house was built in the 60's, so who knows what's gone on there. i have a black light, but i don't think it's a very good one. it never has shown me anything in the way of urine as a matter of fact. i'll definitely do some shopping for a good one. there's a spot near my office area somewhere in the basement that i cannot find. so that may help resolve that.  thanks again, all of you! i'm going to come up with a tentative plan tonight and get things going this week. i'll keep you all informed!   
 you know, i have read several times that feliway can cause more problems than it solves, from a territorial basis, so i'm with you on the thought of just letting the diffusers expire...  
 lol, i don't mean to laugh, but that's a cat for you. however on the bright side (i hope since this post of mine is quite a lot of time later so i'm hoping there is a bright side and she didn't use the floor again!) she's at least using a box. that counts a lot!!  
 go team !!  
 i have no answers but wanted to offer some encouragement. you are a great person for adopting this cat! thank you. i think sometimes we over think why they do this or that. you are certainly going to all lengths to figure this out and make it work. i would think the issue might have to do with being in the shelter for so long. that is so sad. i don't know that you will ever know why she does what she does. if only they could talk, right? so keep doing what you are doing.  
 thanks for the replies everyone. info and encouragement are all very much appreciated!  a quick update... last night i cleaned out the litter-filled box that i removed (from the trouble corner with four boxes) the night before, placed a pad in it, and put it a couple feet away from the litter box in the opposite corner of the room. i was a little shocked this morning when i found that none of the pads had been used. and no messes on the floor again, despite the fact that i had "uncovered" part of her favorite "inappropriate" spot. so i went about my routine - scooped out their boxes, and proceeded to get their morning meals ready. that was when she decided it was time to make use of a pee pad. not a big deal really. i bagged it up, wiped the box out with vinegar (as i always do), and put a new pad in. no change when i went back to clean up their dishes later. unfortunately i returned from work a while ago and found an unexpected situation. in the "problem" corner the litter filled box had been used, along with one of the two pads. and there was a mess on the floor right in front of them  the third pad in the opposite corner had still not been used, and the other litter filled box (which is sort of in between near a storage shelf) was completely untouched.   something i don't think i've mentioned before. gryffon pees a lot. a lot. apparently that's a common side effect of feline diabetes. his litter clumps are absolutely glacial. that made it pretty easy to tell who was peeing where. the last couple of weeks, however, he seems to be peeing more often. therefor smaller clumps. so it's become difficult to tell who's who. from what i can tell, though, he appears to have shifted his litter box preference from the far corner to my "problem" corner. don't get me wrong... he will make use of any litter box we make available to him. but he's always seemed to like one spot in particular.   anyway... i feel that separating them would be a means of gaining some solid info on digit's preferences. on the other hand, this is almost certainly a confidence issue (at least to some degree). and don't see that getting better unless i keep them together. i'm going to see how things go tonight and tomorrow. if there are anymore messes i'll put the fourth litter box back in the problem spot. i'm going to put some thought into how i can tweak or add to their environment too. maybe some more hiding places will help. or perhaps some kind of high "cat walk"? hmm...  
 one thing that caught my eye in your recent post is you said you wiped the box out with vinegar. cats have such a keen sense of smell, that must linger even beyond what you can smell with your human nose. i wonder if that is why she is avoiding the box. other than that, it seems to me that a cat who is ill just does things out of the norm. you may not be able to correct this. again, god bless you for taking this cat on along with your other cat. that sounds like a lot of peeing and i think she means well but she can't help it, perhaps.  
 i don't really have any suggestions, but did want to post and let you know i'm still following your thread. fingers crossed it all works out, eventually.   
 another week. i'm mapping out a project that will give them a couple of catwalks along the ceiling, while also creating some much needed overhead storage for myself  not sure when i'll have time to install everything, but it's something to look forward to.  you make a valid point here timmer. which speaks directly to this weeks happenings.   so our water heater began leaking last weekend, and very quickly became an emergency situation over the course of about 5 days. i was honestly shocked at how quickly i went from cleaning up a tiny dribble, to sopping up large puddles, to "holy crap my basement's flooded!" nonetheless it created an interesting situation in the cat room. the water heater happens to be located right next to digit's bathroom corner. so for a couple of days i had some towels laying on the floor to soak up the water that leaked out. and guess where digit decided she should urinate? this is why the pads aren't a solution. there doesn't seem to be a difference in her mind between a spot on the floor, or an empty storage tray, or a tray with a pad in it, or a towel, or the carpet. this has always been about figuring out how to make her go where i want her to go. pacifying her behavior just buys me time to figure out what to try next.   now this past thursday got a little crazy. the water heater leak had progressed to the point that i could no longer keep up with it. fortunately there is a floor drain about 6 feet away, so no real harm done. unfortunately for digit the water had to run toward the drain in such a way that it cut off access to her corner. i still had another litterbox and an empty tray set up in the opposite corner, so i decided to just wait and see what happened. i was off work that day, and had to leave this leaky contraption running long enough to get the kids bathed that evening anyway. so at some point digit finally decided that she wasn't going to get over to her corner, and a new plan for urination was in order. she chose the empty tray on the opposite side of the room.   this has given me a bit of courage to try something that i've been wanting to do for some time now. take that corner out of the equation. i should have a buddy coming by tomorrow to help me get this new water heater installed. and i think i'm going to follow that up with clearing the tray and boxes out, and placing a water fountain there (and possibly her food dish). we'll see what she decides to do from there.   thank you all again for your support. i'll post my progress at some point by next weekend.   
 mating is normally not bloody, and in any case it wouldn't cause blood to drip like that. you said that she pooped in the bed... was there any blood in or on her poop? could she have been making noise because she was in pain while she pooped?  
 other than going to the vet so they can check if there is a boo boo in her bum, i don't really have anything to add for that. but..i have a "hump happy" male (who's now 18). and to this day he still humps, and yes his little willy does come out too so it's not just a weird way of kneading or anything. what we did, and it seemed to help to allow him to "get out his frustrations" without humping us when cuddling or every surface in the house....seriously.....everything that was soft, was we got him a fur covered pillow as his very own blow up doll. now he seems to only hump the armrest of the couch, which we discourage by simply putting him on the floor (no discipline or anything) or on his pillow, or he will simply seek out his pillow on his own. you could try something like that. next time he starts trying to get to your girls, just pick him up and introduce him to his very own "furry friend". i don't know why it worked for him but it did, although because we only had males in the house, he never (as far as i could see) tried to hump the other cats. one thing i would also do, is try to give him more play time to tire him out a bit more. and also try to build up your timid girl's confidence, so she may start to defend herself instead of just pooping in fear. poor thing! i hope something helps! good luck!  
 i have built a door to block off the entire upstairs for her when i go to work so i don’t worry about her when i’m not there to supervise! when i’m in the same room as them there are no fights, but if i go upstairs to use the bathroom they get into trouble  my vet knows all about her aggressive and fear based behaviour. sadly she was in a feral colony for over two years and her behaviour is hard to modify (though thankfully she loves me!). we’ve tried everything short of medication, which i’d rather avoid.   
 he does occasionally pee in his box but its only a few times and when he does pee elsewhere its him emptying his bladder he hasn't been to the vet yet but i will be taking him soon   
 i thought she may have a uti so i took her to the vet and they did an ultrasound on her bladder. no infection. i’ll try the scent swapping. i put the prozac on their favorite tuna food. i did not mix it around. i just covered it with the food. maybe i need to mix it to dilute it. the wheel...every morning and evening i sprayed it down with nature’s miracle no more marking. it didn’t help.  do you know if prozac can work short term?? i really don’t want them on this long term. can they eventually be weaned off? if i could find an excellent home for her, i would re-home her. it’s just so hard and the thought of not knowing what becomes of her is unacceptable to me. thx..patti  
 i have a 9 month old kitten whom she has no issues with. i let the baby in the room every day to play. but i notice that boopy doesn’t do well with the rough play. she gets nervous and then sits on the other side of the room. i think she’s totally intimidated by other cats since the 3 evil ones beat her up the entire week i was away  
 hey, i saw this the other night and have been meaning to reply ever since! i have an almost 10yr female (biscuit) and a just now 9yr old male (jethro). i've had them both since they were weeks-months old. they used to get along great until i moved home with my parents for about a year and a half. we moved out of my parents house in jan 2014 and i was really hopeful that we'd be able to get them at peace again but still to this day she hisses and growls at him.   anyway -- jethro is a very anxious kitty. he is the sweetest thing ever when he is at home with us but his file at the vet is literally red flagged that we cannot drop him off ever unless he is sedated. he is so aggressive at the vet it takes two people to hold him down while the vet tries to draw blood or do whatever needs to be done, and that even is not usually enough (he's a big cat to begin with). he used to be fearless and over the last 4 years he is afraid of everything and hides under the couch everytime it rains (and it's florida, so that's basically 6 months straight).  we put him on prozac back in july 2016 and it seems to have helped. my cats still don't get along, but he doesn't just attack her constantly anymore (he's in her space a lot because i think he's lonely, but she's not interested) and it seems to have helped his anxiety a lot. getting him an oral med would be terrible, so i asked my vet for the prescription in topical form and had it compounded into a topical. i work at a compounding pharmacy so i made sure that we got the strength so that all we need to apply is 0.25gm per dose to his ear and rub it in. we tried 0.5gm but it was too much cream for us to put on his ears so we had to make it stronger so we could use less. i was actually wondering recently if it was still doing anything, but then last week we forgot to do his meds for 3 days in a row (biscuit was at the er vet for days), and he stopped eating and was very depressed. he's been back on it for about a week now and have seen much improvement again.  your vet should be able to point you in the direction of a compounding pharmacy in your area, or you can use one basically anywhere and they can mail it to you. i would just try to make sure that she writes it so that each dose is 0.25gm so that you have to apply a minimal amount. ask the pharmacy to package it in a topiclick, and each "click" measures out 0.25gm automatically. the beyond use date for these compounds are usually about 90 days (no preservatives). it may be more expensive than the liquid that's available commercially, and i don't know what your budget is, but it may be worth the extra cost if you can afford it if they won't take the orals. cost will vary by pharmacy, but we pay about $45/90 days worth and to me it's worth every penny because while he still hates getting his meds, it's much easier than an oral.   for bullied cats -- i have read that buspar can help them build their confidence. i have no experience with it in cats or how effective it may be and i have no idea what kind of side effects there may be, it was just something that i read a while back when i was trying to find something for my two. this was a couple of years ago, so it may not be recommended now, just remember it being something i read about before and mentally filed it as something to potentially read on at a later date and just never circled back to it.   long post - sorry about that! but i hope some of this helps  
 i think it might be worth it to put the victim cat on prozac too. if she's nervous around the aggressors, they'll pick up on it and it'll trigger their instinct to attack her. maybe not yet, and maybe not as long-term as the aggressor cats, but when you begin re-introduction it might be good to have her on some kind of anti-anxiety medication.  
 it might be possible to put the liquid medicine in the capsules ( use animal based ones obviously) and use a pill gun. the liquid would dissolve the capsule, but it might take a couple of minutes, which would be plenty of time to pill the cat ( the gun is just a convenience, btw, you can also just carefully drop the pill in the back of the cat's mouth.)  
 i asked the receptionist at the vet’s office about that, she never heard of it :-(. i’ll see if the empty #5 capsules work...if not, i will move on to plan c.  ((((((sigh)))))))   
 it's a compound, so it won't be available at their office. however, your vet should hopefully be familiar with compounds. what dose are you currently using the liquid and/or tabs? i can help you figure out what to ask your vet for if you'd like. are you in the us? if so, what state are you in?  
 so they get 1/2 tablet daily then?  
 if they are each getting 5mg total per day, then ask your vet for this:  fluoxetine 20mg/ml cream apply 0.25ml (5mg) to the ear once daily    hopefully your vet already knows of a local compounding pharmacy that she can give you the contact info for. if he/she does not, send me a direct message. my pharmacy can ship to ny so if she is willing to fax it to me at my pharmacy we should be able to fill it for you at least this first time so you can get started with it while you find one closer to you.  it may seem like a hassle to get, but it has been a game changer for us. it takes two people to hold our boy down at the vet, there is no way we could get him his prozac orally. the cream is the only way we could do it.  
 yes, for sure! he still sometimes takes it too far, but it's much better than it used to be. they still don't get along well, but now it's mostly from the end of my other one just not wanting him around her (he's been up her ass recently.. i think since she's been sick he's been concerned and just seems to always want to be near her).  i will say, he never was at the point that it sounds like your 3 are, so i can't guarantee that it will help enough in your situation, but it might.   also, i did go back and do some reading online and did find some articles on buspar sometimes being used on the bullied cat to help boost their confidence in these situations. i have no first hand experience with it or anything, but maybe you can ask your vet if they've used it before or have seen any studies on that?  keep me posted!  
   if this cat get onto you, @rufusgizmo, sometimes giving them a "blank" (food, no pill) followed by another blank, then a "loaded" one (with the pill) immediately followed by a blank throws them off and they get into the game and take the pill down quick.   
 i tried pill pockets liquid hiding in food everything. only thing that works for me is hiding pill in very thinly sliced prosciutto or salami. pushing it tightly onto pill so it sticks and hides it. it has been working for me for almost a year now  
 also it took a good two months to see the results of the buspirone  
 ~ ah good. that works for most people. you just have to actually place the cap in the throat/back of mouth of kitty just spits it out. i always give a squirt of water from an eyedropper as well .  how are the cats doing ? notice any difference ?   
 it’s been about a month since they have been on fluoxetine. 5 milligrams every day. so far there is no difference. in fact, one cat (my white cat from thailand) seems to be getting more aggressive. she bit my husband a couple of times when he was petting her - over-stimulation aggression. she is also getting aggressive with my 11 month old cat. boopy (the victim cat) is still separated in another room. i feel so badly for her. i was just telling my husband that i will give this another month and if i see no change, i may have to rehome the thailand cat. she has taken over as the alpha cat in my household. do you (or does anyone) know if it usually takes more than a month for the fluoxetine to kick in? this is crazy. thx.   
 ~ like people medication does not work for everyone - cats as well . i would be concerned about the new aggressive behavior. i likely would stop the prozac if it were me. seems to be having the opposite effect.  i have a few cats on zoloft and it does seem to calm them after only a few days. i have had fairly good results with calming collars - i have a few cats wearing them. it seems they are more "tame" after a week or two. hope for the best ! keep us updated ...   
 the 5 mg. daily is having very little effect on them. the aggressive female hasn’t bitten my husband any more. she’s still trying to break through the screen door, just as she did pre-fluoxetine. hair raised, crazed look in her eyes. i need something to make her indifferent. is there a drug like that? busbar? i’m thinking of waiting a couple of weeks, then opening the door, can of coins in my hand. first attack - bam.  
 ...and it’s not only my bengal. it’s my khao manee and bombay as well. i have 3 cats on fluoxetine.  
 thank you so much for your interest in my problem and for sharing. (and for reading this i have 5 (indoor only cats). cat #1 is the only male. he actually loved being the only cat when i got him. i had a small old dog who has since passed, but they were fine. i don’t know why, but i had to get cat #2 when #1 was 8 months old. he dominated her by biting her neck and mounting her (all my cats are neutered and spayed). he got rough at times, but he was asserting his alpha place in my house. they would sleep together and they were fine after a few months. this is where i believe i messed up: i had one petmate jumbo litter box. i was so proud of myself for having only one. i cleaned it twice a day and they both used it.  stupid me...i saw a cat in thailand on line whom i fell in love with and arranged for her to be shipped here. she went into heat early and #1 (although neutered) had his way with her several times before i spayed her. he asserted his dominance and they were fine, no fighting. i still had 1 jumbo litter box, cleaned twice daily. everything was so peaceful and fun in my house that four months later i had to get #4. the first week, #3 “played” with #4 and scratched her cornea. the vet gave me an ointment that didn’t work and her eye got infected. i had to take her to a specialist who put her on 4 different meds, 13 times a day and still didn’t know if she’d lose the eye. i took off work and followed all directions and her eye healed. looking back now, i’m not too sure #3 was actually playing. she may have been totally jealous of #4. all four cats were basically ok together (just a little spat occasionally). i still had one jumbo litter box. all used it. it was always cleaned twice a day. i thought that was ok. #2 and #3 would sleep together. sometimes #1 would sleep with them, as well. no one ever slept with #4. it was like she had no friends. then #4 turned a year old and #1 constantly chased her, growled at her, hissed at her and it escalated into cornering her and swiping at her. i was constantly breaking up fights with water pistols. they were all under 4 years old and i figured they’d establish their hierarchy and it would work itself out. #2 and #3 were not involved in the fights with #4. i had two cat trees and window shelves on every window. i have a small 4 story home. there was plenty of room for 4?cats. there were no real issues. i got #5 as a friend for #4. she is now 10 months old and everyone seems to get along with her, but i’m concerned she’s reaching maturity. #3 is starting to chase her down. i think #3 is running for “alpha cat” in my house. in july, i went away for a week. i had a woman come twice a day to care for them. i noticed #4 was losing weight and i made sure to tell the woman to make sure she eats. i feed my cats canned meals twice a day. no dry food is left out. at this point i wasn’t overly concerned about #1 and #4 fighting. it seemed intermittent and controlled by the water guns. when i returned after a week, #4 was covered in scabs. all my flower pots were knocked over. many “scuffles” happened when i was gone.  #1, 2 & 3 were stalking viciously attacking #4. #4 urinated bloody urine in my bathroom sink. i took her to the vet. they did an ultrasound and found nothing wrong. they attributed the inappropriate urinating and blood to stress. i put them all on royal canin prescription calm food, bought calming collars, two feliways, and vigorously played with them. nothing. nothing helped. i separated my house into two halves - one for #1, 2 & 3 and the other half for #4 & 5. i bought 2 more cat trees and 3 more litter boxes. then i switched their spaces. #4 started urinating on my kitchen counter. twice i found urine in the same spot. i bought natures miracle “no more marking.” i decided to give #4 her own room with an excercise wheel, sunny window shelf, and her own water fountain. i separated the room with a screen door so they could all still smell each other. i also have a feliway in the room. #4 started urinating on the exercise wheel. the carpet beneath the wheel was saturated so i removed the wheel. i cleaned the rug with nature’s miracle foam carpet cleaner for urine odors. that was a whole other nightmare because #4 got so sick. she’s better now. i put #5 in with #4 every day for a few hours. they get along.  i contacted a pet behaviorist who told me mostly everything i was already doing.  i contacted my vet today and he said i should double the dosage for the prozac to 10 mg a day. that sounds like so much. well, that’s the whole story. thank you for reading. thank you for any and all input. i really appreciate it more than you know.  
 have you tried feliways? it might help calm your kitten's behaviour if he's still digging up dirt, though as others said i've read that a lot of oils are toxic for cats.  we also got toffee and fudge some scented stones from our local pet store that we place on places where there not allowed to roam, which is something else you could consider putting on your soil?  
 very grateful for this site and the warnings about essential oils! i will give the orange peels a try and maybe proceed on to the apple cider vinegar if needed.  i appreciate all the links, too. thank you for taking the time to respond!   
    
 we did try the feliways, but he seems immune to it, lol. i haven't heard of scented stones. where do you get them and what kind of scents are they? thank you for your reply!   
 has she been spayed?  
 i would play with her before bedtime so she is tired. play with her before she eats too and keep it at the same time each day. she seems worried you guys will disappear again!  have a routine when you leave the house so distract her with toys and treats and then leave. make the indoors more appealing so get a cat tree, cat grass, have a perch by the window.  
 lily is 1.5 years old! when we were away we think his sisters may have actually over fed her, so it's funny that you mention that. it was only for three days though so i would think 3 weeks later she would be re-adjusted to her regular feeding schedule / amount.   
 you might try an automatic feeder set for 2 am or whenever she gets most interested in eating. i've never used one, but there might be one you could set for two different times and divide the food between them.  
 hahah! yes i totally get that as i'm more of a grazer myself. he also has the luxury of sleeping through the night even if the sky is falling but i have wicked bad "mom ears" from years of nannying so i pick up every little thing, including our cat meowing even if a fan is running in my ear. it's the worst.   
 it is possible that before he got a playmate luigi was eating out of boredom and now he has entertainment. always good to have him checked out though and see where his weight is. if he is at a good weight i wouldn’t worry about, just see what the vet says.  
 hi! how much household activity is happening at those two times? i'm assuming a lot?  i also think she may need some extra attention, extra playtime and extra luvins especially at those times. if you can, designate someone (maybe alternate people if that helps) to be lulu's special friend during those times let us know how this goes   
 hi. yowz - you do have a lot going on!! you said ludatsi is more of a watcher of play than a partaker? but, does she have 'buddy time with one or more of the other cats - not necessarily playing, but just hanging out? if there was one in the bunch that she got along the best with that is now leaning more toward giving the new kitty attention, she could be reacting to that (kind of like cat jealousy). if so, then the above suggestions about giving her more of your time to replace the loss of the attention she got from her 'old buddy' might be the solution.   in the meantime, having the vet check her out is a good idea - sometimes utis don't always show up with a lot of symptoms until they become more severe.  
 my three kitties are all strictly indoor cats. i'm very aware of which indoor plants/flowers are poisonous to cats, and don't have much of a green thumb anyway, so my homes have always been plant/cut flowers free.  however, last mother's day, my daughter picked some flowers from a bush in our front yard and put them in a vase on our dining room table. we rent the house we live in, and because our cats never go outside (combined with our general disinterest in things growing in the great outdoors), neither of us knew the name of the bush from which she plucked the flowers, nor whether it was one poisonous to cats.  you can guess where this is leading, right?  my cat, nico, decided the flowers looked tasty, and unbeknowst to either of us at the time, nibbled a few. about an hour and a half later, nico was running around the house as if he was being chased. the skin on his back was rippling and twitching, and he kept stopping to lick areas of his back/sides - as if he was being bitten by fleas. he was also panting.  that's when we noticed the stem from one of the flowers on the floor under the table.  my daughter immediately went outside to snap a photo of the plant, and we both began frantically googling; a few minutes later we identified the bush as an azalea - toxic to cats.  i whisked nico over to the vet right away. 24 hours and $200.00 later, he was fine, thank god. my daughter and i are now aware of the dangers of azaleas (and will never bring cuttings from anything growing outside indoors ever again without first properly identifying it as being safe around kitties).  however, in the months since the incident, i've begun to wonder; why do cats allowed outdoors (usually) seem to avoid the plants/bushes/flowers poisonous to cats, while strictly indoor cats appear to be drawn to all plants/flowers, safe or not?  in our neighborhood, azaleas, rhododendron, and tiger lilies are prolific, and many of my neighbors allow their cats to roam outdoors. yet in the 11 years we've lived here, we've never seen a cat knawing on a poisonous plant (but we have observed cats chomping on grass), nor heard of any cat becoming ill/dying because they ate something they shouldn't (except my own cat, of course!).  i've tried, unsuccessfully, to research the answer to this question, except for the following i found and am quoting from -beware of poison plants for cats:  "for cats living outside, [poisonous plants are] risky business, but they will rely on their internal alarms to let them know what to eat and what to stay away from."  i don't know how reliable this site is, and furthermore, this quote, while appearing to support my belief outdoor cats tend to avoid harmful plants/flowers, doesn't answer the question "why?". if this "internal alarm" the quote alludes to exists, why would it not be present in indoor kitties?  any ideas?  
 wow! good question! i too, tried searching for information about this. the information below is essentially all i found (ok, i only searched for about 15 minutes). it is from the icatcare.org web site. kind of helps, perhaps, to explain it...  "there are many commonly-grown plants, both house plants and garden plants, that are toxic or can cause skin irritation. most cats that go outside do not eat poisonous plants but will nibble grass and other herbs, perhaps as a remedy for digestive problems. however, if cats are kept permanently indoors they may not have access to grass and may try eating other things either out of boredom or to try and access some plant material."  
 very interesting! it explains why indoor cats might eat toxic plants, but not why outdoor cats usually don't, though. certainly a tiger lily or azalea flower is more visually interesting than a blade of grass, so i'd think, given a choice, one of those might seem more appetizing. but i'm not a cat, so what do i know? it could very well be, like you said, a matter of indoor cats not having access to grass and/or other non-toxic greens. i'm not about to test the theory by letting nico outside to see if he makes a beeline to the azalea bush, though...   of our three cats, nico is the only one who seems to have a "thing" for flowers, plants, and other leafy stuff. we have a bunny, too, and i had to switch her from loose hay to hay cubes, because nico would stick his paw through the bars of her cage, hook some hay with his claws, pull it out - and eat it. (and then i'd inevitably find hay-laced vomit on the floor somewhere a couple hours later). i also have to keep an eye on the dandelion greens i feed her for dinner; if i set them down on the counter for a minute to do something else before i give them to the rabbit, nico will junp up and try to eat those, too! (i know dandelion greens aren't harmful to cats, but the bunny doesn't steal nico's food, so...)  i wish i could grow him some cat grass. i did try, but because there is no place in my house to put it where it gets sufficient light, it dies after about a week. unfortunately, the house is really small and very poorly designed; the windows don't have sills, and because of their poor placement and the bad configuration of the rooms, furniture is placed in front of every window that lets in enough light for plants. even those shelves that can be attached to windows won't work as both my daughter & use manual wheelchairs for mobility, so we wouldn't be able to reach window shelves to attend to the plants!   maybe i need to start buying an extra bunch of dandelion greens every week, and let nico have his thrill...i mean "fill"...haha!  
 i use the cat grass seeds and have two large pots for them. the pots sit on the floor by the large window. kitty fun is standing up to reach in the pot for the cat grass.  having one cat i only plant maybe 20 seeds at a time and only in one pot. i wait a week and plant 20 in the other pot. that way there is cat grass most of the time. it isn't full and lush as on the package, but it is more than enough for one cat to munch on during a two week period.  the key thing is you could plant just 20 seeds in a small container...  
 i would try only teaching her one thing at a time. so i would buy air canisters for the counter and feed her more. next i would play with her at least twice a day, until she is tucker-ed out. lastly i would start carrying around small toys to throw away from me when she hunts you. if you find she still attacks you i would say "ow" in a high pitch voice and clap your hands or stomp your feet. then ignore her for 10 minutes.  when i trained my cats i was mean. if i saw them on the counter i said "off" loudly and cruelly pushed them off..... or scared them off with clapping. i would try the gentler consistent method to train a cat to stay off the counter. it worked to gently train the semi-feral 7 year old cat. i know it may seem weird but gentle annoyance and meeting their needs is the way to train cats.  
 my cat thinks his name is no no no.   
 wow i take my cats off the table if i'm eating or preparing food. i don't let my boys on the counter or table ever. you let your cats get closer to food/temptation then i do. if i'm watching tv and eating, i won't let them get in my lap as i'm trying to eat. i just gently push them away.... but the counters? fire, brimstone and penny cans will reign down on them!  dante thinks his name is bud and dante means "hey you, stop what you are doing right now!!!!!" when he was a teen i invented a chant just to use his name in a positive way.  
 haha! she sounds like my cat when he was just 5 months old. he would try to climb up my leg when i'm prepping food, then lose his grip and slide back down... with his claws out! was she a former stray/recent adoptee? if so that might explain it — all that competition for food in her precious environment.  what are your thoughts on free feeding? it sounds as if your kitty can’t wait until the next meal and is afraid of missing out on food. having food available all the time might help her. of course after she stops hounding food all the time, you can readjust her back to scheduled feeding!  feeding her a while before you start to eat might help too. that way she’d feel full and might be less inclined to eat your food when it’s your turn. if she jumps onto the table, tell her “no” and plop her back onto the floor. scratch her on the head when you put her down, but don’t give her any more attention than that. repeat as necessary. she’ll learn! or at least she’ll eventually tire herself out or get frustrated. don’t giver her any scraps during dinner/lunch/etc. you can giver her a little something after you're done though. she might make the association that begging-while-humans-at-table = no food, humans-done-eating = treats for her!   it might take a while! my kitty took a couple weeks to learn but he leaves us alone when we eat now!  
 i agree with @catlover73. only reason i didn't specifically get into it was you mentioned that the older cat would "chase" and i think you said "go after" too. that is unusual for a big cat to do with a tiny kitten and struck me as different than the ideal situation of the big cat teaching limits. but since it is quite rare for an older cat to go after a tiny kitten, its possible that things were never as bad as you feared and that the older cat really just wanted to school the kitten.  edit: you didn't actually say this was a 12 week old type kitten. if your using the term kitten for say a 6 month old, then you could easily have more aggressive interactions.  
 initially, he would go after him, aggressively. i mentioned in another reply that he has historically been horrible with the only other cat he ever lived with. that included actively hunting him down, and he showed a little bit of his behavior at first. however, that was a long time ago when he was still half stray, and we have since moved away from that "home turf" outside and he's a very different cat. the "going after" has long since stopped once i started letting monty make his own progress, i just didn't want it to start again.   the kitten is *roughly*12 weeks old, maybe 14?   
 ok, you all helped my fears quite a bit! i allowed about 10 minutes of supervised interaction when i got home. monty did groom ori several times when he'd approach, a good solid 5 seconds or so of head licks. he did get slightly more exasperated each time until he finally pushed him to the floor. when ori tried to get up and move to him, monty scruffed him until he flopped on to his side, swatted him, and when ori was good and submissive gave one (angry) head lick before stalking off. so, definitely boundary setting and not aggression   ori bounded around the rest of the time. he would approach monty or try to play, get an angry look, and give him a wide berth.   the last time monty approached ori when he was laying down, he gave his rear a good sniff and a lick. he got really agitated at this - he gave the flehmen response and started whipping his tail, and them when ori would walk near him he'd jump and bite. so, at that time i separated them. it was a good day.   i'm guessing the agitation is because ori is not neutered. his appointment it tomorrow so i have high hopes that post neutering it will no longer be an issue. possibly related, monty also gets really agotated and starts hissing when he is allowed to sniff ori's litter box.   super happy with how it went today   
 you're probably right! after he is neutered tomorrow and heals up they will be allowed to intermingle as long as i am home, after seeing the good progress today.   knowing how he was with the other cat he lived with - hunting him down endlessly, the other poor cat becoming a ragged neurotic mess - i became so incredibly scared of his interacting with other cats. i always told myself i will not buy another kitten because it wouldn't be fair to the kitten if it didn't work, but if one fell into my lap .. and this one did  much as i do think he needed the extended slow introduction, i am probably overthinking it still.   
 maybe he would have been a total jerk if you adopted an adult cat, but there is a lot more toleration of kittens. sometimes the older cat will be super stressed, sometimes the older cat will set limits, but hunting the kitten with the intent to hurt it really doesn't happen. some sort of biological hard wiring.  jen is correct that it tends to go much better if the older cat is willing to set limits. absent the neutering, you could let them interact freely.  
 i agree with the above. if it weren't for his medical conditions potentially creating the change in behavior, i would say he just decided it is a nice spot to be in - for now.   my cat has had some weird place to choose to sleep in over her 14+ years. she once had a cover on her litterbox - i won't rule out that at some point in time she did in fact sleep there.  
 your kitty might not be feeling good. my cat will get like whenever he is sick. i would take her to the vet.  
 i'll bring her to the vet to make sure, but could there be another cause?  
 i’m sorry but i can’t think of any other cause. since you’ve had the kitty for a month, i think you’re past the adjustment period. were you recently around other animals? sometimes the smell of other animals will cause them to hiss at you and bite.  
 buy her lots of tissue paper and put the toilet paper roll in a plastic tissue box container (with a note taped to it explaining why you have to hide the toilet paper from your cat?)  all in all this sounds like one of the least harmless kitty destructor stories.  
 one year i gave each of the cats a roll of toilet paper and the dog a roll of paper towels. we had a white christmas.   mine out grew the will to shred paper over time, a long time. christmas wasn't the same after that, but we managed.   
 i haven't lived in a home had cats and toilet paper hanging anywhere but in the cabinet under the sink for... ever.  just screw a little hanger thingie right on the inside of the cabinet door and that battle is won.   either remember to tell anyone visiting where it is, or make a cute sign.  
 my 8 month old kitten/cat just got neutered last wednesday. the surgical spot is clean, he licks it a little more than other areas during his cleaning regime, but doesn't obsess over it or anything. however, i'm a little concerned about how much his activity level went down. before he would beg to have me play with him, he was super curious and would jump all over the counters to get to his food when i'm preparing it. two days after the neuter he got a lot quieter. he became less vocal, he would still follow me around, but instead of meowing loudly for his food/ pawing my legs and trying to jump on the counter he sat and waited for his food to be ready. he still loves to play, but instead of having high energy that needed to be worn down, he will only play when i initiate it. before the neuter when i opened the front door he would run out happily and be curious about everything, now he just sits around the front door...   he seems to be sleeping more, but eating/drinking/pooping/peeing are all as normal. i do think he drinks more than other cats. i scoop up quite a few (4-5) pee clumps from his litter daily. it's a small water bowl, and i've never found it empty, but i do often see him lapping at it.   should i be concerned?  
 usually they can play well together regardless of size. the little ones grow up quickly and when they are friends a squeal is enough for the larger to back off. have raised many kittens with full grown cats and no one has gotten hurt except for one obnoxious kitten who got a claw sheath stuck in her nose and probably deserved it.  
    
 i've always brought home cats at different stages in life, including kittens, and have never had a problem when the bigger cat plays with the smaller one. usually it's the older one who gets annoyed and tries to get away from a pestering kitten! if you do the introductions slowly and considering angus is still young, i'm sure they will do fine.  and congrats on your new unexpected addition!  
 every time i get my hopes up, they get dashed. i've done some scent swapping, laying my shirts worn while handling the kitten and the bedding from his first night. riddle ignores it, angus sniffs curiously and then lays down on top of it. i felt pretty good about that, but he's been almost obsessively laying in front of the spare room door just staring at the door. once when the kitten was meowing, angus hissed at the door. he's also been a bit more dominant. every thing i put down for riddle and angus, he has to get into. i put some catnip down for him, then tried to give riddle some but angus left his and tried to take riddle's. he wasn't aggressive about it, just pushy. i feel like it's because he knows there's a strange cat in the apartment and he's feeling threatened. he's encountered ferals on our walks, so he's used to smelling other cats. i was just hoping it would be an easy transition and i'm getting mixed signals from angus. i know it’s still very early in the process.  
 i had a cat for 3 years alone in my house. just took in another one and she is almost 1 year old. they integrated well. i don't think they like each other but tolerate each other. i notice they get into "pawing" spats. i don't know if this is good or bad or if they are playing or fighting. no growling or hissing or hair standing up or ears pinned back. just batting each other with their paws. anyone know? should i leave them alone?  
 yup. batting, slapping, kicking, chasing, knocking each other over, biting the other in the neck , bunny kicking, world class wrestling, hissing, screaming and growling are all part of the play games of kittens. they may look or sound like they are attempting to kill one another but they are just having fun.  
 my cat luna likes exploring outside and yes i'm okay with that. keeping her "safe" is not a good enough reason to strip her of her freedom. i wouldn't do it to my kids nor would i do it to luna which is a furry kid of mines. with that said...   luna tends to yowl very loud every time she comes back home. if i don't respond to her(which i do sometimes to see what she'll do), she'll keep doing it until i do or go back outside again and sometimes i can hear her yowling outside as well before exploring again.  here's what it sounds like -   here's what it looks like -   
 has she been spayed? whole female cats will sometimes yowl when in heat in order to attract a mate.  
 three of my nine make that noise when they find specific toys. for estella, it is a spring or the leg off of a stuffed animal. for astrid, it is a fuzzy ball. for tara, it is a certain kick toy, a crinkle ball, a spring, and articles of clothing that she has pulled out of the hamper.  estella makes a similar sound when she fakes being stuck to get my son to "save" her.   they never go outside and are fixed.  
 guess we can just chalk it up to cats being cats again lol.   
 true...always good to rule out fleas, which can cause anxiety and tail-chasing.  
 hi all,  thanks to everyone in this community since it's been helping me a lot! i posted my first thread a few pages down ("trying to understand adopted cat") and the responses have been very helpful.  as a follow up to that thread, i wanted to reach out for guidance on something i've been noticing in myself since the adoption of my 7 year old cat about 2 weeks ago. in the beginning, she would hide and be aloof with me but slowly she has been opening up and i have been trying to bond with her in different ways.  what i've noticed since i've adopted her is that my anxiety is through the roof and i feel like i have the blues. i think she is adapting at a normal rate for a shelter cat, but i have been constantly worrying about every little thing, wondering if i made the right decision to adopt a cat, anxious about leaving her alone even for a few hours, and fretting about any upcoming trips i have for business or personal.   i've heard and read that this happens often to both new dog and cat owners, this anxiety/ depression/ regret, but that it will subside the majority of the time and i'm wondering if any of you all experienced this when you adopted your cat in the beginning and how did you all cope with your anxiety/ feelings of regret, worrying, or depression?  i'm not sure why my anxiety is suddenly so strong since adopting a cat (i've always dealt with mild anxiety) since animals are supposed to help calm and de-stress humans and i'm hoping all of this will go away soon but until that time, wondering what i can do to de-stress. i mainly worried about how she is more aloof than other cats and doesn't really play (i'm in the middle of trying to find different toys/ games she likes) and about leaving her alone (when i go into work or my upcoming business/ personal vacation trips). not sure if twice a day for 30 minutes is enough and my cat is more shy/ timid so i'm scared that she'll never even spend any time with the pet sitter.   sorry for the long thread but these are all the thoughts going through my head. i think i just have anxiety over having this new responsibility of caring for an animal and when she doesn't play or show affection or when i have to take trips, i start ruminating on if she would be happier with another family or if i made the right decision to adopt a cat.  
 hi! there have been a couple of posters recently describing something of the same feelings.  i think/hope if you continue to work with your kitty, in a gentle way with no need to feel rushed or hurried, --and of course she needs to get used to you as much as you need to get acquainted with her, ...i really believe you-all will be just fine.  i don't know if there will be anything in either of these threads that might help; struggling (and failing) to bond with new cat regretting adoption of cat - can you relate?  
 i can definitely relate to the anxiety! i got my cat last year at the end of august, she was my first pet in a long time (and the one before her in college had been a betta fish, which has less worries involved) and she was very skittish and unhappy at first. it was near the beginning of the school year and so i had to be gone the whole school day just about right away. i remember telling my principal i was sorry for rushing home that monday two days after she came home but i had to make sure she was all right.  the anxiety has faded a lot. it still happens for firsts - like first time leaving her overnight, or first vet visit, first long vacation, etc. and she's my first cat so i guess that makes sense. it's been a long time since i've wondered if she would have been better off in another home. i know she and i have a bond and she's happy with me.  lelia worked on lowering my stress as we forged a bond. she does at least one thing that makes me laugh every day and seems to know when i need a bit more. give it time doesn't help you now, but that's what did it the most for me.  
 thanks all for such great advice and links to the other forums. i've noticed a few forums about post-adoption anxiety and regret so it's helpful to read what everyone's experiences are.   talking to a few friends with pets has helped and they have also opened up about having doubts and struggles leaving the pet for even a few days. living alone and being far from family because of career/ job has added to my initial worry since i felt alone but am trying to tap into resources in this area.   but finally a small success with her: after several, failed toy purchases, i found a toy she likes which is the "cat dancer" (this also happens to be the most inexpensive out of everything i bought).  
 @graciesparent i didn't know if you'd seen these?   struggling (and failing) to bond with new cat regretting adoption of cat - can you relate?[/quote]  
 i also experienced the regret and fear that this is a 15+ year commitment when we adopted our two cats.  i personally found spending time with the cats and playing with them helped. i still have twinges of regret every now and then, especially when we were having alot of issues with our boy. (hiding 24/7, 0 affection, just seemed miserable, which turned out was a side effect of one of his medicines) but it does get better. and more rewarding. once you both find your groove with each other it really is amazing. and the sense of reward and validation of being able to figure out your cat (because i feel like they are puzzles) and its an ongoing process but it does get better. and as you understand your cat you understand how they like to be loved and how they show you love. our girl loves being petted all the time and being in laps, where the boy hates being picked up and is lovey and affectionate when he wants it.  i honestly found watching "my cat from hell" helped alot because it helped me understand my cats more. helps with what certain behaviors mean and that there really isn't a bad cat, just cats whose needs aren't being met and that is coming out via behavioral issues.  it will get better!  
 initially, i felt that too. things that helped: great vacuum cleaner and attachments (don't laugh!) as well as covering my couches with easy to wash blankets that match the decor. a good set of cleaning supplies and a mini dust pan with the litter and litter box. a furminator brush. i don't really have to clean any more than i used to before raja and mizu, a few daily chores that really don't take much longer than ten minutes.  as for the "what if's and the worries"...this site was my problem solver. for problems i don't even have! if i'm worried about something my solution is to read about it. reading calms me down because then i can understand what i might need to know in the future. this could be your solution. i know this doesn't work for everyone. my sister finds that reading about things can produce anxiety for her and she worries about things more...so your mileage may vary.  you mentioned "calming your brain". while i haven't been plagued with it for a long time there was a time when i would over think things. do you feel like your mind is going over the same things repeatedly looking for solutions? i'm glad you feel writing might help with that and may even short-circuit some of the energy in it.   overall, i would give it time, without being specific to a time frame. my cats have been wonderful for reducing anxious feelings. i adopted them shortly after the death of my partner and while it was a big lifestyle change for me i absolutely do not regret the adjustment. wishing you the best.   
 yeah you totally got this. she sounds like a wonderful cat. i’m a little jealous. you will settle in just fine together. soon you won’t be able to imagine life without her. it’s only been a week! try to do something relaxing for yourself. what a lucky kittty you have.  
 moe, i think i'm wondering if i really want this, though. i know i *can* do it, but i'm starting to feel like i don't really want a cat in my home.   rather than a cat mom, maybe i'm destined to be a cat's cool aunt. because even the fleeting comparatively non-anxious moments, i think, "nope. this isn't for me. i don't want a cat here permanently."  raja, i'm like your sister -- the more i read, the more panicked i get... even though i read because i *think* somehow it will help ("the more you know" and all that). i figure if i can learn as much as possible about whatever question/issue i'm having, i can solve it or prevent it... but that doesn't always pan out.  i'm definitely an overthinker... to the point of virtual paralysis: i overthink and worry so much that i then can't make *any* decision lest i make the wrong one.  i'm also a total neat freak, and have an extensive cleaning arsenal. i live in a condo and am feeling claustrophobic due to all the new cat stuff that has made its way into my place in the last week -- the beds, the toys, the litter box, the litter supplies, the scratchers, the cat supplies, the cat food, the treats, etc. i think that's also why being outside my condo or in my cat-free bedroom feels like such a relief.  my current strategy is to ask myself each morning, "can i do this for one more day?"  
 i was just about to suggest that the cat might be bored with the games and toys. there's an article here i read (i think furballsmom posted it for me at one point) that talks about the importance of rotating toys/games to prevent the cat from getting bored. as long as you've already ruled out health-related issues, maybe challenge him with something new?  7 proven ways to get your cat to be more active   
 the “kitten” refers to you as a relatively new poster, not the age of your cat.   
 the kitten word that you're seeing is based on how long you've been here/how many posts you've done  oh, we typed in at the same time lol  
 hah oh   
 do you have anger problems in general? yelling at a cat for over 10 minutes sounds a bit alarming. we'd be happy to help you with resources in either case, but we might be able to be more specific with more information.  
 the cat did nothing wrong. unless you take her in and make her an indoor cat, she is a stray and will do as she pleases. cats don't understand english and don't have the same emotional range as humans do. yelling at her and withholding food is only going to make her leave. if you really care about this cat, take her indoors and have her spayed.  
 i gave my cat vet prescription ear drops at 9 this morning and my cat is hiding and i call her but she can’t hear me or just chooses not to. willow is eating and drinking okay. i’m going to call my vet.  
 i hope she's ok. please keep us updated  
 update. called the vet. they said to keep an eye on her but she is back to normal!!! they said don’t give her any more drops till sunday or monday.  
 hopefully she has come out by now. she just may not have been happy about getting the drops and is hiding so you can’t give her more. if she is eating, drinking and using the litter box she is probably okay.  
 hi artnj,  when we got her she was just under 5lbs. now she is almost at 6. her weight gain has been a bit slow but the vet said as long as she's gaining it's good. she doesn't like the gravy food but loves the pate so that's all i feed her. she's small in stature and isn't very active due to her age and health struggles. she's almost 12 now. thank you for the advice and information!   
 9 oz of pate plus the goat's milk does seem like quite a lot for such a small not very active cat, so i agree with you that this is likely food anxiety and that you probably shouldn't increase the overall quantity. do you put it down only for a certain period of time, or leave the 3 oz until finished? is it all wolfed down?  i'm no expert on food anxiety although i've had a few cats with the issue to one degree or another, but i know one thing you can try is put the feedings on a rigid schedule, and set a timer, so the cat knows that it only gets fed when the timer goes off.  
 thank you so much, that advice is super helpful @elphaba09!   i will try the feliway and separate feedings for now. she's only been here a couple of months so maybe with time she will learn that food is always available here. she's had about 5 vet visits since we got her because she was so sick and surprisingly her teeth are very good with little tartar and no infections. we were concerned at first because the calicivirus was giving her mouth soars but she's ok now. i had started with a food that was triangular shaped but she hated it so i tried one that was very tiny kibble and no dice. i also tried the one especially shaped for persian mouths but it was a no. i think she just hates the texture of dry food. weirdest thing because most cats i know love dry food to the point of addiction. i'm just happy she does prefer wet food as it's better for her but i wish i could bulk her diet up by mixing in some dry food. she will refuse to eat her wet food if i put dry food in it too.  
 hi everyone, i'm very new here! i live at home with 4 other people (parents and siblings) and we own 4 cats. 3 kittens and 1 adult cat. the adult cat is an outside cat who comes in occasionally.   2 of the kittens (these babies are mine) are about 5 months old. i've had them since they were 3 weeks old (the were orphaned kitties and i saved them). the other kitten is about 6 months and we also got him at the same time and he's my sister's cat. they all get along relatively well. they play well with each other, sleep and groom each other, etc. my sister's cat sleeps with her most nights but my kittens typically sleep downstairs.   out of the 3 kittens, drax (my 5 month male kitten) is much more easily stressed out and anxious. it's just part of his personality, i'm not really sure why. lily (his sister) and squid (the other kitten) are very outgoing, friendly, playful, etc. drax is also this way but he also runs away from people and most noises startle him and he's just very skittish in general.  i raised them all summer long (i got them at the end of may) so they were used to me being home and taking care of them. i was worried about drax for when i started school and work (lily and drax are very attached to me). i'll still be home in the afternoon on most days, but there are a couple of days throughout the week where i'm not here at all.   i was worried the herpes virus might kick in with his stress (they've struggled with their health on the herpes virus, but they're much better now) but instead it looks like he's taking the peeing route...   he peed on my pillow the other day while we were playing in my room together and it looks like early this morning/last night he peed on the carpet. i've been able to clean both things fine, but i'm worried that this is a behavioral issue, not a medical one.   i plan to get his urine tested as soon as i can get a sample, but he already had a physical exam and the vet agreed with me that this is probably behavioral. he's eating normally, pooping normally and when he uses the litter box, peeing normally as well. his energy is also just fine.  any tips on what i should do?   my mom said to give him my old t-shirts so he can have my scent and the vet recommended to spray some cat pheromones around the areas hes in all the time. not sure where to buy this, or any good brands...  
 hi!  you mom and your vet are both right  whether feliway works or not, there are other brands available in pet stores and online. the brand depends on the cat, but a diffuser is possibly a better idea than treats or a calming collar, i'm not sure. there is thunderease, sentry etc and the site only natural pet can be a resource. don't order from amazon, there's too much risk of getting a third party knock off.  
 he's not necessarily guilty, (--cats don't really think that way, although my boy is super smart and makes me wonder  ) ..... just interested...by the way, you are using an enzymatic cleaner? it will help to eliminate the odor and keep him from using the area again.  
 for my pillow i used hot water, soap and detergent. for my carpet i made sure to use water to get much of the urine cleaned as possible and then i used pine sol for the smell. i made sure it didn't have any ammonia and did some research and apparently it can get rid of the smell. i can't smell any urine anymore, but hopefully drax can't either!  
    
 thanks for your encouragement. this is my first go at this. no blood, a little bit of fur. i see what you're saying and will definitely make feeding arrangement changes and continue with the scent swapping. i'm grateful for your help!  
 i have given a lot of thought as to how i can move buddy downstairs, but i can't find an option. my house is such that there are no small rooms other than a tiny powder bath. in keeping with the open concept, all main floor living areas are very large and open and without any regular-sized doors...all french doors or double sliding french doors except to powder bath which isn't big enough for buddy to live in. i tried him in the diningroom with sliding doors and he opened it enough to squeeze thru. he is super strong. there's no way to open them only so far & put gates...nothing to hold doors closed or secure gates to. even buying huge gates and stacking them so that we humans can access the kitchen or livingroom or diningroom areas won't work as it prohibits human access without taking them down to get in or out. i tried putting him in the powder bath just to feed him this morning...he freaks at the small space & climbs the gates, struggling to get out & everybody gets upset. maybe if i got all three gates in place, removed the bottom one & pushed him in there with his food & tried to get the gate back on before he escaped....doesn't seem practical or calm & reassuring...  do you think it would help if i keep trying to take lola upstairs for special treats & scheduled feeding or sequester her upstairs? i thought about blocking access down the stairs, but the stairway & catwalk are wrought iron railing. she would escape or fall from second floor. i'm getting discouraged...  what about getting a kennel & setting it up for buddy to visit downstairs for meals?? or just keep doing what i've been doing???   
 oh, no worries! i am just so grateful for your suggestions & help & especially moral support. thank you so much for being there for me!!!   
 i like your and @hellenww 's thinking  you can only go as quickly as the slowest cat, which in your case will of course be lola. she will tell you when you can make the next adjustment closer to buddy of her food plate, or how long she can handle the room swap.     
 i have two year old tabby who was bottle fed and rescued from a woodpile. he an extremely affectionate cat yet only so while i am in my home office chair. he will jump up into my lap and purr, let me pet him almost everywhere except his head (which seems to be about the exact opposite of most other cats) and is very content. he will sit with me for an hour or so if i will let him. my question is this, why only in my home office chair? he will never sit in anyone's lap on the couch, recliner or any other place in the house. even if i take my laptop to the kitchen he wants nothing to do with being pet of being in my lap. anyone know why a cat would be so single chair focused for human affection? he does want to be near and around people and will move from and will be very close to us, but does not enjoy being pet. we love our mel, but he is a bit weird   
 did you by any chance bottle feed him in the office?  
 don't forget, too, that some of his behaviors could just be the normal process of growing and socialization and testing limits and rank. google "adolescent cats", and prepare yourself for the coming year of a teenage cat!   
 rex used to leave hair ties in the water fountain. amalie leaves hair ties and rubber bands at her feeder.  
 duncan will carry one of his toys around the house and cry like a baby with it in his mouth. luckily, he usually only does this very late at night.  duncan also snores - a high pitched whistling little snore.  barry used to lay at the foot of the bed, stretch and slide off like a kid in a playground  
 you are not alone, but it's usually when tommy is left alone in the living room downstairs for too long and he'll pick out a toy and bring it up to my room. if the door is closed, you're going to listen to him pace the upstairs hallway like that for a while.   
 i have posted this before but willow hisses when she plays by herself, sometimes when she yawns, sometimes when she is excited to see me and sometimes she just opens her mouth and one comes out. i’ve seen cats hiss during play but not all the other instances.  
 it's the time of the year for pumpkin pie. my cats beg for me to shoot at them with the can of whipped cream!  
 pixie makes a noise during meal times when he is having his favorite food. it's sort of a mumbling between "mmmm" and "mmmmaaaauuuu"  he also loves to watch tv and will use his paws to turn on our xbox one so i will turn something on for him. he really likes english shows such as downton abbey, the crown, call the midwife, and a couple of other shows i watch that has people with british accents. lately he also enjoys watching rudolph the red nosed reindeer. he does try to use the remote control too, but hasn't hit the power button yet to turn on the tv.   one of his favorite possessions is an oven mitt he claimed as his own when we first took him in. i was doing multiple things at one time and left the mitt on the couch. when i came back for it, he was using it as a pillow. hubby and i tried to get it back and pixie would put his paws on it and look at us. he still uses it to this day.  
 ~ my buddy 'tuxedo' likes to take a nip of the alcohol gel hand sanitizer . he also fancies himself as a hair stylist and likes to groom the front of my hair .   
 yoshi likes to play chase with me up and down the hall. at some point he'll stop and do a little bounce. i'll make a "phaser" sound at him. he falls on his side, closes his eyes, and stays completely still until i turn my back. then the game continues until i'm tired. he's 12 now so he is ready to stop when i am. when he was under 8 he'd walk around making pitiful meows.  
 in the morning he will go behind the bed, then i'll see the top of his head and paws randomly popping up at the side of the bed. he will stand like that until i touch his paws then go down and pop up again in different place.  
 two things come to mind, right away,  one. when my cat, buddy, was just several months old, i noticed him working at imitating his mother's voice. she had developed an infection, after a vet visit, and acquired a very raspy voice. i could hear him practicing day and night -- and, finally, he had it down pat. i couldn't tell the difference between the two cats' meows.   while he was working so hard at this, i thought i could interest him in imitating my voice. so, when he accomplished his mother's voice, i started saying "i love you" in way i thought he'd take interest in. he did! he practiced and practiced. he had trouble rolling the "l" sounds. i think it took three or four months, but he could really say it perfectly! not only that -- he taught other cats to say it, as well. (i think they wanted to learn because they thought it pleased me. it did, but i them all the same & just as much.) i had three or four cats that could say it. i, often, refer to buddy as "the rich little of cats".   two. my cat scooter (now deceased) was on a high bookshelf in my home office. i walked in, saw him, and told him to get down, as i sat down at my desk. to get down, he jumped on to the printer nearby and, in doing so, stepped on to several of the control buttons. the printer lit up and made a bunch of noise. scooter, now on my lap, looked back and his eyes lit up. he knew he had done that. then, he leaped back on to the printer, pranced around for a few seconds , and jumped back on to my lap. he turned around, quickly, to look at the printer. he was sooo disappointed that there was no noise, no lights blinking. i thought it was amazing that he knew he made the printer work, but i was stunned that he tried to do it again. i was going to teach him that he had to step on the buttons, but i feared walking in to the office and finding papers (spit out from the printer) all over the room, some day.    oh, i just thought of another! three.  i had a pair of slipper boots that i wore all the time, if i was home. my cat star had not known anything else -- she was born seeing me in my slippers. when we moved to our current location, it was late fall and i, probably, wore my slippers to bed to keep my feet warm. but, when spring came, i took them off, at night, and left them by the bed.   about that same time, star started crying at night. (actually, it was a long time before i figured out it was star -- if the cats were indoors, they usually slept in the living room and i wasn't sure which was crying.) and, sometimes, i would find a slipper in my bed, in the morning. i, actually, wondered if i had taken them off, at all, kicking them off my feet during the night and knocking one to the floor. it happened so often though, i really wondered if i was going mad.  this went on weeks (4, maybe even 6)! finally, i stayed awake to help figure out what was going on. i pretended to be asleep. it wasn't ten minutes later, a cat would cry in the other room. rather than rush out to find out what was wrong & console them, i stayed in bed. ten minutes later, i heard a cat come in the room. it picked up a slipper boot and drug it onto the bed. then, she -- i now knew it was star -- jumped down and got the other slipper and drug it up on the bed. make no mistake -- these boots were pretty heavy. i'm amazed she could get them on the bed. then, star sat there -- watching the slippers and whimpering. i sat up. her first instinct was to run, but she stopped herself. she looked soooo sad! the bottom line was she thought i was going to die without "my feet"... my slippers. i told her it was ok -- i patted my feet and showed her i was in no pain. i gave the slippers a little toss and showed her i couldn't have cared less -- "eh! not a problem!" i pet her and hugged her for caring so much and i know she was 100% relieved. she never cried or moved my slippers again.    ok, four. sorry. i had a blind cat, stevie, an, until he convinced me he didn't want to be babied, i worried about him constantly. he was an outdoor cat. (i live in a wooded, country area.) i couldn't find him and i called for a half hour. another cat, mohammed, meowed and took off passed me. he got over to the fence, turned around, and meowed twice. i ran over -- and there was stevie, on the other side of the fence. he couldn't find the holes i made for the cats to get in & out. i thanked mo, who really hated stevie, and, then, talked stevie over to a hole where he could get in. i thought it was so amazing that mo led me to stevie -- esp. since he hated stevie. he'd just as soon stevie never came back, but he knew i was upset.   before i think of more "things" about my amazing cats, i will leave you with this photo of buddy. when he was a baby, he'd dig holes in my flower pot to sleep. he did this three times before i put chicken wire beneathe the moss to ekkp buddy out. (we lived in an apartment, then. he longed for "nature".)          
 one thing i think is unusual and funny with cricket is when she needs to use the litter, she will first dig around a bit, then put all 4 of her feet on the ledge of the box and pee that way.  
    melody has a dvd i put on for her during the day. one segment is her favorite, with sparrows on a tray and a hanging feeder. she'll watch intently until the parts where it looks like they are flying out of the tv--and try to catch them. i know it looks to her like it is a window and she should be able to get them and never can; but, she keeps trying.   [yes, she has her own tv. it didn't start out that way. i had an old console that we both used. when it stopped working, she couldn't understand why the birds weren't there. i mentioned at work and one lady had an old pink princess tv her daughter had outgrown. melody was very grateful for the donation.]  
 hello everyone!  i'm new to the forum/site, and i need your help. i have a cat that pees on anything and everything and won't stop. i'll give you a little background summary to get you caught up, and hopefully you can help me from there.  i have three cats, all from the same mother. the first two are a female, and the older male, and the third one, is the younger male. the first two were born in the same litter, the third came in the next litter from the same mother. they are all part manx, both boys have stubby little tails, the youngest has nearly no tail at all, and the female has a full tail. the older male is the largest of the three, the younger male is next, but is more compact like a traditional manx. the female is lean, agile, and the smallest of the three, but not by a ton.   the oldest male is definitely the alpha of the group, but they all definitely seem to get along. the oldest male and female tend to hang around us more, and sleep in the bed with us, but the younger male is more independent as far as wanting his space. he'll come around for love and will hang out, but he definitely doesn't stick around as long as the other two. currently live in an apartment, and they all share a large litter box, and food and water bowls. they are all six years old, and are well taken care of.   the younger male is the issue here, he pees on everything! he pees on the bed, couch, any pile of clothes or towels, as well as shoes and sometimes on the carpet. he uses the litter box regularly, but he continues to pee all over as well.   now, let me tell you what we know/have tried so far.  -we've tried lavender, having the scent and spraying it. -we greatly increased the frequency of cleaning the litter box, making it a daily routine. -we put a tarp on our bed when i'm not in it (he only pees on my side), but he'll still pee on the tarp, sometimes more than once a day. -we reduced their treat intake drastically, as we've heard that can lead to pre-cat diabetes. -we've changed the type of litter in the box multiple times. -we've changed their food multiple times. -we've given him meds for a uti, thinking it could be that...it wasn't. -we use the pee spray that removes their smell from fabric (even on the tarp) every time he pees, so that the scent will be gone and not encourage him to pee there again. the name of the spray escapes me, but i can get it if you'd like to know. -they've all been fixed, and i know if they weren't, it can contribute to urination issues.  so that's what we've tried so far, and have had no success. if anything, it almost feels like he pees more. he's destroyed bedding, clothing, blankets, furniture and carpet over the years. i'm an animal lover and i will not get rid of him or give up on him, it just gets frustrating sometimes, and i want to resolve this issue however i can. thanks for any help in advance, it's much appreciated!  
 i agree with everything that others have said but would also like to add that although you may have given him meds for a uti (unsure you if took him to the vet???) he could have issues with crystals. antibiotics will not help crystal formation and only a vet will be able to tell you if he has crystals in his urine. and a cat can have crystals chronically without significant straining, meowing in pain or blockages, but it does not mean it still does not cause him discomfort, making him avoid the litter box.  
 i know that seems counterintuitive, more wet, more pee, more mess, but it really does make a difference in a lot of cats we've "seen" here.  
 hello everyone! i'm outerzone92 and i just adopted my first ever kitty (and first ever pet) almost a month ago. my buddy dracula is a really sweet and loving boy, but he tends to misbehave quite a bit and i would really like some advice.  i'm not quite sure how to start this off, so i'll just describe what's going on, and go from there.  - this has been a problem since i first adopted him, but i can't seem to stop him from clawing at my carpet. he seems to avoid clawing my furniture thank goodness, but he keeps clawing at my carpet. i've bought several scratching posts for him (cardboard and rope) so he can scratch those, but he seems to show no interest in doing so. i even gently lift him up to introduce him to his posts and put his paws on them, but still in the end he ignores his posts and goes straight for the carpet again. no matter how much i try to get him not to tear up the carpet, he just doesn't listen to me. i would love some tips on how to get my big guy to use his posts if possible.  - i make sure to give dracula plenty of love and attention, but sometimes he does a weird quirk. he tends to circle around my couch, then start meowing at me until i either pet him, or he jumps up on my couch to get my attention even more. after that, he'll knead my blanket that i usually have, then hop off the couch. he'll repeat this several times until he goes to lay down somewhere else in my trailer. the vet that examined him before said he's healthy, save for a tiny case of swollen gums that have gone back to normal (that's how the shelter gave him his name, the poor guy came in with bleeding and infected gums. they had to remove 9 teeth from his mouth, but he also has really large incisors that makes him look like he has vampire fangs, really cute when he shows his pearly whites.). i'm wondering if anyone has any idea why he might be doing this? i just want my guy to be comfortable around the house. something to note: he does like being pet to a certain point, and does fall asleep in my lap at times.  - my last issue that i'm concerned with is that at times he'll really be focused on grooming himself. as i mentioned before, the vet said he's fine, but i'm trying to figure out why he grooms himself so often. he won't do it all day, every day, but i'm still concerned as to why he might be doing this. he does it in almost 5-10 minute bursts, though he hasn't licked anything raw or caused scabbing, ect. i have thought about the fact that he doesn't have many teeth, so he can't "nibble" the itching area, which might be a reason why he might be doing it in a little excess. if someone could give me a possible reason why he might be doing this, it would be greatly appreciated as well.  to give a better idea of what goes on in my household, i do have a somewhat lengthy job where i work 10 hour days, 4 days a week. i do have a housemate who takes care of him as well, and has a lot more experience with cats than i do. dracula has his own dedicated area in the living room, complete with toys, his litter box, food, several scratching posts, and a climbing post where he likes to climb and watch everything going on outside through his window. he's a wet food kitty and i make sure he's properly fed, and i'm going to invest in a timed feeder to help even more with the timing of his meals. i have thought about getting him a companion so he doesn't have to be alone while i am at work, however i'm not sure if that's a good solution. i also don't know if i could handle 2 cats at the moment, given i just started raising my first one. i try to make sure to spend some time with him on my days off, making sure he feels loved and secure when i'm home.   i'm sorry for the large amount of text, but i wanted to describe as best i can about what is going on. besides these issues, he's like any other kitty, meowing at night, doing cardio at 3am, playing with his favorite toy, and showing a lot of love. i'm hoping that someone could help me out, and thank you for your time!  (p.s. here's a picture of the sweet boy)  
 hello and welcome to tcs.  congrats on being a first time kitty mom.  dracula is adorable.  how old is he?  about carpet scratching, i'm still trying to break my ruby's habit of scratching/destroying my basement carpet.  but here's a tcs article that might help with your dracula. it's title is furniture, but might apply to carpet too. 23 proven ways to stop a cat from scratching furniture  not sure about the attention seeking, and grooming. might just be him getting used to being in his new home.  
 he is a pretty handsome boy, he was everyone's favorite kitty at the shelter . i felt a little bad when i was taking him home, everyone in the shelter was getting misty eyed when i was taking him out the door  i do have a horizontal scratch post that's part of his climbing post, along with one on an incline, which is his cardboard one. the incline one is one of those kong naturals type of scratchers. he's used it a couple times, but never really latched onto it honestly. i'll try to put it near where he scratches, hopefully he'll take a liking to it .  i appreciate you reassuring me about the grooming, he does tend to do it right after he eats, i just didn't notice it in that way before. he also tends to eat quite a bit since he's a larger than normal cat as well (he's about 11.5 lbs and he's pretty long. his tail alone is 12+ inches)   
 ooops.... sorry i referred to you as a cat "mom".  congrats on being a new cat dad !!!!    and though you've had dracula a while, here's another article that might be helpful: first-time cat owner's guide  as well as can cats manage without their teeth?  with his teeth issue, i figured he was an older cat. but per the above article, cats do fine with few/no teeth.   
 thats what we are going by! she has, due to someone needing a stay over place while moving, met other strange cats without the proper introduction and done quite well, as in the room they were staying in had the door open the whole time. our friend's cat never left the room, but she had full contact if needed. the last one was a female whom she hissed and growled at from afar, but by the end of the week, was sniffing her. possy has a great demeanor in that way, just hope that she moves as fast with the kittens. she's my heart cat, and she seems far more distressed than the last time she met a new kitty!   would it hurt to put her in their room, and let them explore some of the house for a bit this weekend? will possy let me know when that's okay to do? we have been spending far more time with her than the kittens to let her know she's still our special girl, but i still feel god awful!   
 can you elaborate on this a little? why from a bag only? so no loose leaf? do you just hope they lick up the teaspoon or syringe it in their mouths? or put in their water?   
 you can add it to food or their water.  the bagged tea is german and safe for kitties. @mamanyt1953 this is your expertise, am i correct for the op?  
 the cat we lost, starlina, who lived to the ripe old age of 22, made new additions so easy, its weird having to slowly introduce new cats. she had the most mild demeanor i've ever seen in a cat. of the two kittens she lived with, both times she tolerated their antics, and never fussed once. she was a saint when it came to changes. even when we moved, she didn't care one bit.   really happy to see possy doing better with the ability to see the strangers. she's also cuddling with me like her usual self today. maybe starlina taught her something!  
 she looks so curious about them playing. when we were at the shelter, we were originally set on one kitten - seti, but pixie spoke out to us from across the room. was pawing at the bars on her kennel and meowing at us. after i held her for a little, i handed her back to the volunteer and she jumped down and ran for the hills around the room, i knew she was going to be perfect for possy. she's got a great demeanor, and so does seti. really sweet laid back kittens that want to play.   possy loved playing with starlina, but starlina was a bit old for a 2 year old rambunctious kitty! especially one with a 'tude. i hope she comes out of her shell sooner rather than later, they are so intrigued by her.  
 so a little bit of progress! possy went right up to the gate while pixie was there. she growled and hissed when pixie came up (who smartly just laid down). possy did swipe once, but she’s definitely curious.   they are in the room where i have my closet, went to put on my shoes and they filled them with the dry food i left out for them to snack on throughout the day lol.  
 should i worry about her swatting at the gate a little? she ran off afterwards (much to a pixies dismay!) but i thought it was odd.  
 possy does seem to be getting along better than the other resident cats in other threads! she’s still made a point to come cuddle with me every night. even if that means passing by the dog and the kittens’ room to snuggle with me!  
 well while they were waiting for me to finish my homework before i gave them breakfast, they were actually playing together on the cat tree!  possy was growling a bit but she was on top of the one tunnel and pixie was underneath and both were rolling around swatting at each other. then crouching down and running around up and down the tree too. they were purring so loud between the two of them i could hear them across the room!   still waiting to get a picture of them all on the bed, but my girly has been one champ of a cat. she sure is a special one and boy does she know it.    
 i'm thrilled that your crew has decided that living together is a good thing! but i was pretty sure it was just a matter of time (didn't expect quite this fast!).  love that sleeping bag trick! i'll pick one up for the daybed in my office!  
 i was also hoping one of the kittens would click with my boyfriend, but i now have three cats that have a need to follow me everywhere. the bathroom is hilarious. one pushes the door open and than everyone else joins. this frustrates possy the most, but she still behaves pretty well considering how small the space is.  
 she’s improving daily . if only seti would learn she does not approve of him cuddling with her lol. or playing with her tail....  
 you have a solid plan in place, and i'm betting that after a period of time, all will be well. do be aware that some introductions can take weeks or longer, although with kittens, this is not generally the case. just remember that you can only go as fast as the least-willing kitten is comfortable with!  
 i was in almost the exact same boat about 18 months ago: when to introduce new kittens  big difference for me was i was dealing with a feral cat that was very shy and withdrawn. so i had to get him used to people and used to another cat.  i was surprised that a kitten in the house for only two months would get so territorial - but he did. the other thing that surprised me was the jealousy of the resident cat - for months, any time i would pet the new guy he would come over and smack him around. but we had an relatively peaceful integrated family after about 6 weeks.  but, in the end, you should be fine. cats, especially kittens, are pretty accepting and dynamic. my two boys are bff's. its not perfect, but it pretty good.  
 my 5 yr old has started doing that for a month. i got her 5 weeks old. she always peed squatting but is now standing up! i took her to the vet. she is fine. i bought a 13 1/2 inch tall, 23 inch long 18 inch wide storage bin. no problem now  
 my ruby also pees standing up, backed against the litter box side, so on occasion pee would end on the wrong side of the litter box. a bigger, higher-sided litter box solved the problem.  it could also be that your girl doesn't like the enclosed litter box. maybe try taking the cover off.   another thing to watch for with the covered box is pee seeping out between the seam where the cover attaches to the box. the first litter box i had for ruby had 2 pieces, and with her "standing up" peeing method, pee used to leak through the seams onto the floor. that box was quickly replaced.  
 some cats learn to do this when they are a bit older and prefer to pee this way. there is not much to be done, you just have to find a higher box or put puppy pee pads next to the opening.  
 sometimes if there's too much litter in the box my cat ferro does this. he usually pees with his butt facing the inside but if he's facing the other way, sometimes pee goes out the front opening and onto the mat. he does squat but only a little bit, and if he's standing on a mound of litter then out it goes.  
 i agree, i would get her checked out for a uti and make sure she is getting enough canned food every day. my cats pee weird when they are having pee problems.  
 thank you everyone for your helpful advice. the vet had checked her over & no uti or other problems. the vet told me she is just a stand up pee-er & we’ll have to work around that. she also suggested to cut out the dry food & she’ll drink less water & pee less. our vet is a huge advocate for raw meat diets for cats, but we add grain free dry food as we believe she needs the nutrients missing from raw meat. i’ve started using the puppy training pads & put the door flap back on the litter box & there has been an improvement... less pee & the puppy training pads absorb any escaping pee, so no more puddles to constantly mop up!  pebbles (our cat) has peed this way since we got her & we changed to the enclosed litter box as she was making a terrible mess on the floor & wall!  so overall she is all good just going to be a messy kitten/cat! next step is putting in a cat flap into the window so she can go outside rather than using the indoor litter box. we have a cat enclosure but unlike my last cat... pebbles seems to prefer the indoor litter box but hopefully as she gets older that will change! thanks again everyone  
 here’s another option for a diy, and this one is smooth and flat on the inside bottom. this link is obviously amazon, but i didn’t want to buy multiple bins until i actually saw one. i found it at walmart for $13.99. it wouldn’t work for the room at the sanctuary where rain is because it’s just over 11” and she needs at least 12”. but they have it in the isolation room for new kitty mr. handsome, and i scooped it today and it worked well. of course, i had to do the cutout before i took it in which was time consuming and a pain.     i’m grateful my three girls all squat to pee! regarding the arthritis, even though lily and iris are a bit stiff, they still run and jump. it may be that the difference is that when they squat, those muscles have to hold them steady while they urinate and that may be more painful than the quick burst required to jump, run, or climb. but given your description of how quickly she goes once she hits the box, it sounds like she’s just gotta go now.  or it could be a bit of both.   i hope the pred helped and africa is feeling better!   
 thank you, tobermorey.  yes, i see your point about the arthritis. i still think it is a good idea to get it checked out just in case as you suggested. you never know. i'm a firm believer in treating the underlying problem rather than doing a "band-aid job".  thanks for the link to the amazon bin you found. i'll check that out as well.   and yes, hopefully the pred. is helping africa with the ibd inflammation. it has aided her appetite a bit as well. she needed to gain a little weight. we are doing everything we can to meet all her needs. africa is a wonderful, sweet, highly intelligent kitty and... essentially... my soulmate. : >  best regards,  laurel and africa  
 i adopted duma 3.5yrs ago when he was 8. i noticed he wasn't really a fan of drinking from a bowl and instead preferred drinking from the nap. nervous about what he would do if i went away for the weekend, i ended up buying a fountain that continuously flows water like a faucet. he loved it!! no problems until this past spring when he started jumping on the bathroom vanity, thinking i would give him a little "treat" i turned it on for him. now that's the only thing he'll drink from and he wont use the fountain! help! what should i do??  
 you can try picking him up and setting him down next to his fountain every time he gets on the sink looking for a drink. you might need to do,this dozens of times before he gives in and goes back to the fountain but i think he will use it if he gets thirsty enough. i would make sure though that there isn’t something about the fountains cleanliness or filter that he is put off by. the other think is maybe he is getting arthritic and needs the fountain raised up some so he doesn’t need to bend or crouch as far to drink from it.  
  i certainly don't mind turning it on for him a couple times a day, i just worry about when i leave for the weekend or extended vacations. i have people that check on him for food, i may have to have them turn the faucet on as well lol!!   
 i may have to do the tough love thing lol! one thing it might be is the filter, for some reason when i pick up the unit to move it, some black gunk comes into the water (even though i have run the thing under a faucet 1000x), so maybe for some reason he's not liking the taste of it. i can try to switch it and see if that will work! thanks!!   
 just checking but did his check up include bloodwork specifically?  
 you're awesome, thanks for your advice!!   
 i feed all wet and my male cat still loves to drink water twice a day. my previous cat did as well. some cats just like the social interaction of drinking with someone there to watch them, or are naturally drawn to running water. it doesn't necessarily mean that they are sick.   cheryls, i'm willing to bet that if you stop turning on the tap he will revert to the fountain. you could try it out in the next day or two just to satisfy your concerns. good luck!  
 thank you! i definitely have a couple things to test out, not sure he'll be a fan but hopefully something will work!   in the 4yrs i've had him, hes always been a drinker, at least once a day. i think part of the faucet thing is he uses it to "scratch" around his face and neck.....then i come in and turn it on....i think he thinks he does it lol!  
 i agree it is all related to the hormones. she will be in a lot less stress if you spay her that's for sure. besides being cute when she is in heat that is extremely stressful for her. to keep going through that year after year isn't really fair to her. plus she is more likely to develop pyometra if left intact.  
 females in heat don't spray; they piddle on things, just as you describe. it can be even more disgusting than the males spraying, because a female will leave a bigger puddle... i have had cats in heat pee on clothes, books, backpacks, papers, beds, rugs, the couch, kids' homework, and even on me (i was asleep in bed... it woke me up!) i've also had some female cats that like to pee in our forced-air heat vents, which is particularly disgusting.  females that pee on things when they are in heat will usually stop that particular behavior after they are spayed. whew, what a relief that is!  if she is spayed and no longer comes into heat, she will no longer behave like a cat in heat ("touch me! touch me!") but keep in mind that when she is in heat and acting super-affectionate, she is being compelled to act that way by her hormones... it's not a genuine expression of her relationship with you.  it is hard to predict exactly how she will behave after she is spayed, since every cat has her own personality, but many spayed cats become more relaxed and less "bitchy" and this can help to increase genuine affection. you may also feel more affectionate towards her if she isn't peeing all over your stuff.  
 it’s only when i’m prepping food. but that’s a good idea! she can’t even wait out the time it takes for me to open the can and scoop it in to the container lol.  
 pixie is 4 months old and seti is now 9 weeks old. they are currently getting fed 4 times a day. half a can each meal, with some stella & chewys and a handful of acana dry food. usually there’s food left over. so i don’t think it’s hunger. more curiousity/excitement. they also have all day access to dry food as well.  
 there is no hard evidence that feliway does anything at all. there have been studies that have not found insufficient evidence of an effect. granted, they were looking at anxiety, not meowing.   how old is your cat and what is he like otherwise?  
 my roommate is home, i leave a couple hours before her. he gets along with her really well but he still cries for me when i leave.   
 could you add a play session before you leave? play with him for 15 minutes then put out some food. he should eat, groom, and then nap it off. that's the idea anyway. if you meet his needs, he should be more content and less demanding.  
 my cat had really bad separation anxiety, and two things helped. one sounds silly, but it is fast easy, and helped a lot.   the first thign is that, when i leave i always tell my cat roughly the same thing. "i have to go. i'll be gone x hours. i love you." sometimes i tell her she'll get a treat or that i'll play with her when i get back, or i tell her where i'm going, but talking calmly to her before i leave every time seems to greatly reduce her anxiety.  it establishes a routine and normalizes my leaving to my cat, so that she knows i am leaving, and that i'll be back. the other thing that helped was kitty prozac. i didn't get it for that reason (at least not primarily, the main reason was some pretty serious aggression issues), but i did notice a major improvement after a few weeks. i wouldn't suggest drugs as a go to, but if you've tried everything else, it is at least somrthing that you could talk to your vet about down the line.  i'll second the suggestion of puzzle feeders, too. i doubt that they'll fix the problem, but they should help a little ( if your cat will use them, some won't)   oh, you might try a window sill cat perch, too. my cat loves hers, and, especially on sunny days i'll come home to see her calmly splayed out on her perch.  
 i’ve tried this, the problem is that once i start giving him attention when he meows, he keeps doing it until i continue to indulge him. right now i’m trying to just feed him and ignore him when he’s noisy for no reason.   
 hi again!   for starters, i believe you said before when first letting frankie have some space, he would sometimes go back to his 'studio apartment' - so, for now always make sure that is still available to him along with a clean, monitored litter box there.   if you are still feeding him down there, add another feeding station in the main area of the home as well - somewhere you would hopefully like him to eventually eat from all of the time. but, still keep some food in his studio. you can monitor both and see if/how much he eats from both locations as time passes.   make sure that he has access to multiple litter boxes, depending on how large the space is that he is allowed to roam. and, as you already know - keep them monitored and clean.   whatever his favorite toys are, make sure he has ready access to those. and, if need be, you might want to replicate a few of them for use in the general home area as well as in his studio area. make sure you spend play time and down time with him multiple times a day.   as far as sleeping/night time, i would imagine you are going to give him another shot at sleeping with you? whatever happens with that, you can make additional accommodations if necessary - like a bed in some other place you notices he naps, etc.   and, yeah for now, keep whatever rooms closed off that you think need to be.   i think as long as someone is home most/all of the time to watch him for a while, letting him out of confinement now should be ok. i do think, if it is possible, to pretty much watch him like a hawk initially. you also want to be able to identify his 'favorite' places, including general hang outs, sleep time, play time, hiding areas. just so you know where they are and can make sure he doesn't have any accidents in those areas.   i think you already know all of this (and, probably more), but i know sometimes it is just nice to hear from others to confirm your ideas/thoughts.  
 @feebysowner  better than i could have said   
 his one accident that was probably our fault due to dirty boxes was "on" the sink rather than "in" the sink and that was last weekend. i jury rigged the sink so that he can't go in it but he was still able to "make a deposit" behind the faucet, next to the wall. so it sorta still counts as an accident but not really?  thanks!   
 tonight is his first night of freedom since being confined. he came into the bedroom and was checking it out since the door has been shut (he peed and pooped in there prior to confinement). he was checking stuff out and then he started chewing on electrical cords under the desk??? so i shooed him away and he's now comfortable on a dining room chair. i noticed he really likes to hang out on those chairs. i came out to the living room instead of being in bed with that door closed. so we'll see how tonight goes.  thanks for all your help, tips and advice!   
 frankie is just one big goofy imp! i love him!!  
 hmmm, yeah, sort of not really lol since you're right, the dirty boxes issue was the situational thing for him that time.  bless your hearts, i love frankie stories - and even more so now that it sounds like things are settling down for all of you. what a neat-o cat, and smart!! this is so wonderful to hear, thank you for sharing!   
 yes, probably this weekend  you're welcome!!   
 hi!  bless your older kitties heart!! what happens if you replicate that sound elsewhere? i'm wondering if you can duplicate that sound again and again, even record it and play that a lot, everywhere throughout the house, maybe you'll be able to eventually desensitize him  
 that is brilliant, i will try that!   
 that's ingenious!    amaruuk said: ↑  spoons! little cat, seen dragging my spoons all over the house while he trips over them.  he may be insane.click to expand...  bless you for taking him from a hoarder situation, what patience you have. not insane, you've just given him the chance to be the kitten he probably couldn't be at a young age.   
 i keep trying to get video of him, even pics, but he just never stays still for long lol.   
 hi thanks so much for coming here! so, i think not jealousy as much as curiosity...     rosegold said: ↑  it seems that "absolutely terrified and hissing" -> "eating treats from strangers' hands at a noisy shelter" within a few months is pretty good progressclick to expand...  she knows you're a kind and compassionate person. granted, like you say, your home environment is going to be a big change. someone in another thread mentioned that as you're having her in one area/room to be sure and give her a place to hide, cardboard box or whatever like @duncanmac 's barry needed at first. whatever happens down the road will happen then. every cat is different and she might just be the type of cat that ends up being able to take everything in her feline stride.    
 i'm so interested in what everyone has to say in response to your question. i had a somewhat similar experience with my juniper, who i fell in love with at an adoption fair. there were lots of there who had been lovingly raised in foster homes from kittenhood and were great around people and lots of tiny kittens. juniper was a teenager at 8 months who apparently had been found as a stray (history unknown) and spent 6-8 weeks in a kills shelter, and was just about to 'time out' there and be euthanized when a cat rescue group took her to the adoption event. all the cats there were really freaked out because a dog adoption was going on at the same time and there was constant loud barking from across the room, so it was really difficult to tell anything about anyone's personality. but juniper looked right at me and seemed ready to connect, and i couldn't resist her sad little eyes. so we took her home. and, of course, she was terrified and spent the next few days hiding in the closet.   we've now had her for about 6 weeks, and have progressed significantly. she eventually left the closet, first for short sorties, and then stopped hiding in there entirely. she now roams the apartment confidently, plays like a little maniac, and seems to be getting into the household routine. she asks for things that she wants (food, play, etc.) but she's still not really a snuggler. she does allow us to pet her when she's on her cat tree, and sneaks into bed for cuddles around 5am every night, staying just a few minutes, but she's still very skittish about being petted while she's roaming, loud noises, sudden movements, and too much activity in her space. she tends to run off to the spare bedroom for some alone time when she gets overstimulated.  it's a bit of an adjustment for us, since we had a super-cuddly senior cat before juniper, but it's very rewarding every time she lets us get a bit closer. i'm not going to lie, though, i'd love love love good kitten cuddle on the couch during tv time every night.  so there's one experience (still in progress) with an adopted cat with a mysterious background. of course, juniper wasn't an adult when we got her, and didn't experience any medical trauma of any kind, and these might be important differences.   personally, i find gut feelings go a long way in choosing a pet.  
 heh, until he turns into this ginormous feline that apparently has a personal heater/generator, and both you and he get hotter than hades until he finally decides it's time to move off     
 thanks all for the well-wishes, and chai thanks you for the compliments.  i'm so impatient to bring her home. i look at her photos every day and i barely know her but i miss her! if all goes well, i should be able to bring her home in 3-4 weeks.   i feel the same about my little girl.  thank you for sharing your experience! it's great to browse this site and hear all these stories. despite varying levels of "success," the overwhelming conclusion seems to be no regrets and that the cat grows into feeling safe and happy, in their own way.    duncanmac said: ↑  so they will let you foster her? sounds like a win - just make sure that you can keep her if you wish and don't have to give her back to the shelter.click to expand...  yeah, that's the impression i got when i spoke with the shelter volunteer - that i could start off fostering and then have first choice in adopting her some unspecified amount of time later (maybe after she makes visible progress, or after they decide she's a good fit for me?). honestly, my plan is to push for adopting her pretty soon after getting her home, ideally within a few months. hopefully once i have her here and they see i'm still 100% willing to take her on, they'll recognize me as a good home and they won't be frustrating or difficult in letting her go. (i'll be a little stressed until i get that adoption finalized, though - i'm already attached and it would be horrible to have to let her go!)   
 @rosegold: you can never cat proof your house. they will always find something else to hide in, climb on, eat and break. do your best and improvise. i also see a lot of people in other threads recommending to block off all the hiding spots to make a cat come out - i see that as a bad idea because they need a retreat to hide and compose themselves.  feliway don't buy one right away - i had one and i really don't think that it did anything. after a day or two or three, she should get the lay of the land and start to relax on her own. if not then look into the diffuser  
 ah okay, thanks for the advice! as a new cat mom i'm trying not to go overboard with buying too many things, but it's tempting.     etarre said: ↑  part of the challenge with juniper has been adjusting to her individual preferences. so while you're doing a fabulous job of trying to give chai lots of care and a friendly environment, it may be impossible to get absolutely everything worked out before she moves in with you.click to expand...  this is a good point! i'm sure she has a lot of quirks i don't know about yet. is juniper the cat in your avatar? she is so beautiful. now that i know chai is only 8-9 months and still an older kitten like your juniper, i feel a lot more hopeful from reading your progress!    
 etarre, that’s so sweet! what a brave little love bug! you must have felt so proud.      etarre said: ↑  i've always felt that she has a desire to connect with us, and to trust us, even if she finds it difficult. that's helped me to be patient with her. i wonder if part of your connection with chai is based on a similar feeling from her?click to expand...  i feel exactly the same! well, i’m a very patient person in general (being an elementary school teacher will do that to you!), so i think i might just be drawn to shy kitties... but i really felt that chai wanted to try to interact with me, even in baby steps.  i don’t think i can post videos on here, but i actually have “that moment” on video. i had put some squeeze treat on my finger. her eyes were giant saucers, but despite her fear she immediately wriggled closer to me and licked the treat off my finger. the tiny single front paw scooting herself forward and the little warm scratchy tongue on my finger absolutely sealed the deal. not only was it adorable, but the whole time i felt such a sweetness, curiosity, and desire to connect and trust (even if only to get more yummy treats!).   @timmer, thanks so much for the encouragement!  luckily i don’t have any stairs and my mattress is low to the ground so she should have no problems coming to cuddle in bed if she wants. i am planning on getting her some tiny stairs so she can get up to some higher shelves on the wall and feel safer up there.   
 rosegold, any news about little chai? thinking of you two and sending good wishes....  
 i posted about my new girl in the introductions forum:  me and new nfc!  she’s doing pretty good! a little sad and stressed but only to be expected. she’s a giant sweetheart.  
 congrats! i'm so excited for you two, and loved the pics. keep us posted on her progress...  
 we took in a rescue, and she was so cute. she had been spayed when she came to us about 2/3months ago.  used to sleep in our bed, purr and cuddle up with us and sleep most of the night and then the bad kitty came out.   she keeps meowing at the doors at night but if you let her in she'll trill and immediately look for exactly what she knows she's not allowed into. the second i go to move toward her she gets all zoomie and tries dive into whatever gap she's not allowed behind (monitors & cables). i've even reorganised to be less hiding-spacey but she insists on trying to get in to the space with this wild look in her eye. like she's annoyed with me/feels like she has to get behind there.  i've tried using distraction with toys and using treats when she uses any of the cat friendly space such as window ledges, cleared shelves etc.  i would love for her to sleep or hang out anywhere but she just wants to f*ck with everything the second you let her in. we have a bird for her, tried playing with that until she's tired especially before lights out, she has a bunch of approved toys but shes infuriating to be around. has been to the vet and apparently is in full health..  
 my cat loved the ripple rug but it was too big for my apt. puzzles are a good idea. i would not let her in your bedroom. maggie likes to run around and meows. this is her nightly play time. eventually stops. it helps if i say her name. so you have 2 cats now?  
 here’s a helpful article you can check out: how to stop my cat from waking me up at night (step-by-step plan)  i like furrballsmom’s idea of a ripple rug and food puzzles. charlie likes kibble dispenser balls, so that’s something else to try.  
 how old is she? can you think of anything that happened right before this change in behavior occurred?  when she's just about to start running from you or actually does (challenging to time this, i know) stop approaching her immediately and walk away. repeatedly, in other words try not to ever follow her.  although i never suggest to eliminate safe spaces for cats, in this case i would find some cardboard and block off everything temporarily. your house will look weird for a little bit, but i'm thinking that her behavior needs to be shifted.  does she need more food? if you aren't, try leaving some kibble out overnight, and ignore her at your bedroom door until she stops yelling (mack's earplugs can help).  during the day try more frequent smaller meals. also try low volume classical harp music.  
 congratulations-- your kitten is being a kitten. cute, but super frustrating! even the very best and nicest kittens are a handful, so please don't interpret her behavior as her being "bad" or "spiteful." they're like toddlers-- too young to reason with, with too much curiosity and energy for their own good sometimes.   i've found the laser pointer to be a great way to tire an energetic cat out. if you have a space like a hallway or flight of stairs that they can get a good run in chasing the pointer back and forth (make it zigzag and jump up the walls to keep things fun) you can really tire them out.  
 i do understand that it's just growing pains, shes a little moody teen at the moment lol i'm just looking for advice on how to prevent the behaviour as my partner has much less patience than me and just puts her out of the room, which causing her to meow at the door for the entire time and when you do let her back in she's hyperactive.  i'm sure she has enough food and toys, but will try up her playtime and see if i can find the point that she tires out enough to settle down.   i guess i'm also specifially looking for advice on the behaviour where she sees me and dives for the place she knows i'm coming to stop her from going into/onto. it does result in a little aggression from her, always have to remove her with my sleeves covering my hands. treats don't encourage her out, she just looks at me with huge eyes, swaying with pent up energy as if she knows i'm trying to get her out. i don't want to damage the bond i have with her. (the area i'm thinking of is a very tight crevice that i can't yet cover up.  it kind of sounds like the answer is more playtime but with several people in the house she already gets alot of really active play with the bird and other toys.  
 first of all, her kittens are 3 months old, so in a mother cat's mind it's time for them to be getting on with their lives. she still knows they are her kittens, but they are starting to be seen as other cats in her territory not helpless kittens needing her anymore. since she is not spayed she is likely trying to make the kittens go away so she can focus on breeding and raising a new litter again.  i would get her spayed, it would help level out her hormones and remove the desire to want to go mate again. also if any of the kittens are male (i'm assuming since the mom isn't fixed the kittens aren't either) i would make sure she is spayed soon or they could end up mating with mom.  
 amethyst explained it perfectly. nature is telling her it's time for the next brood and to clear her territory.  
 if your cats never go out then do you have an intact male? she got pregnant the last time, so she can again.  
 i have male at home   
 hello everyone. i'm new here.   on saturday a cousin gave me a two month old kitten from her cats litter.  when i went to pick her up ... i saw that she was living in a cage in a dark garage (very smelly) .  when we got minu home and opened the cat carrier she hissed and growled at as all. nobody could touch her. my mum tried picking her up.... resulting in her hinding under furniture for two days and coming out to eat when we weren't around.   on the third day i decided that i would hand feed her. so that's what i did. i put food on the floor closer and closer to me. as soon as she was near me she hissed a lot but she ate in my presence so i was happy.   she is very fearful. she obviously hadn't been touched or picked up since she was born. living in a garage i assume she only saw someone that fed her and that was it.   i haven't been able to touch her. i have gently started playing with her with ribbons tied to a stick. i manged touching her with the stick.... that she hisses at... then she let's me touch her with it.   what should i do now? she obviously needs to be taken to the vet for her injections and health care. if i can't touch her and if she can't trust me .. how am i supposed to take her there?   i would appreciate any advice.   thank you.   maria  
 she is absolutely scared out of her mind. your cousin should be reported for abuse, no animal should be caged in a dark garage with no human contact, no socialization. can you make sure the mother cat is removed from that situation so she does not have to go through that again? or at least spayed. please talk with your cousin, those remaining little ones need help badly. you are an angel to save one of them, it sounds like you are off to a good start. you might get a carrier and see if you can lure her inside for a vet visit, it is going to be very traumatic for her no matter what.big heavy gloves are going to be needed and make sure those at the vet are aware she is so wild so they don't get bit. she is going to be ok, it will just take time and a lot of care and attention to bring her around, she is young enough. just the fact that you got pictures is a breakthrough! please come here whenever you need, there are many threads on taming kittens. the best things in life are those we have to work for, what you gain for your soul will be well worth it!  
 flexible gloves are best, but you might try these gloves, they are less frightening and work better than many. your fingers and thumb are not covered so there will be the comfort of skin to fur for kitty. this makes it a little easier to grip kitty. they are meant to protect you from rose thorns and we use them for kitty. they are light, like heavy cotton and move freely on elbow and wrists. you might want to wrap band-aids around your fingertips if you use these.     put this into the amazon search. it gives you the name and appearance if you want to get them somewhere other than amazon.  2pack(1pair) 100% kevlar arm sleeves protection cut resistant knit sleeve 18-inch long   
 it sounds like she is food driven. start feeding her in the carrier and you might be able to close it and just go out the door with her. this will put the hand feeding on the back burner for now but with the conditions she was living in a check-up is more important.  she's adorable! she sat still long enough, with a calm expression, for you to get a clear photo. she is also very young so i bet she'll warm up quicker than you think.   
 cuddling and stroking will come with time  
 she's adorable.   just keep spending as much time as you can with her. you're doing good. the more time you spend with her the better. she has made progress and she will make more. it may plateau at times, that doesn't mean that there won't be more progress.   
   i used to bring in a lap top and sit and do work. or a book and just sit and read. just being there puts hours in the "trust bank".   
 does she make other noises or is she just silent ? either way i wouldn’t be concerned. and do you talk to her much ? they usually like that.  
 i heard her miaow for the first time when it was dinner time ❤️   
 what a sad dilemma  especially so for your cat who knows from shelter (and probably previous) experience that life can be harsh. and now her hopes of safe haven are being dashed. does your husband have a soft, protective side to appeal to? being fearful is less a character flaw than it is a learned survival method, especially for a cat.  years ago, i rescued a feral kitten who was extremely shy & timid so we called her wild kitty & only i could touch her. we had a collie/lab mix watchdog named poppy who was a great dog except when a vile man was forcing himself upon me. poppy tried charging him but he kicked her and she yelped and ran home. my heart fell & i felt so alone. but then i heard a deep, guttural snarl and made eye contact with wild kitty who launched herself upon that man's head, caterwauling enough for 5 tomcats fighting, and she was like a cactus on meth. i got away with only minor physical injuries; the man was bloody on his head, face & t-shirt was ripped and bloody. i ran home and later that evening, wild kitty came back safely. i always wondered how that man would explain those scratches and blood to his wife. wild kitty acted a scaredy-cat for the rest of her life but was a valiant warrior when it mattered.   
 hi! thank you for your story! come to think of it my husband does have a soft, protective side. he's the one out of the two of us that loves babies and animals the most. i'll try to appeal to that side of him...remind him she needs time to trust him before he can really play with her. thank you so much for the idea and sharing your story.   
 this is awesome!!! i'm so glad to hear, and i love it when there's a kitty who is positively impacted by feliway (not every cat is). thank you so very much for a good-news update!!  
 i'm considering getting a male (older) for my female (older) not to have kittens. to be around, snuggle with when it's cold etc..  i've tried this before with a younger female and a 3 month old kitten. the females tried to hurt each other.  the kitten and the female were bonding, except i couldn't handle having a kitten.  my female follows me to room to room like a shadow. if i get a male i'll have to hole him up in the closet bathroom. for how long? a few days or more he will be ready to get out. my female will not tolerate being put in the other bathroom. i do not have the other cat.  i'm trying to figure out how to introduce them as smoothly as possible. i read the article about introducing cats. it seems cruel to restrict their access to the whole house.  
 here's a super helpful article:  how to successfully introduce cats: the ultimate guide and if you have a little set back: how to fix an unsuccessful cat introduction  just be patient, take things slowly, and don't force anything. good luck!  
 i understand how you would think it could be cruel to lock one cat into a small room like a bathroom ... i've thought similar things until i realized that we are thinking like a human. cats think in terms of territory and threat levels (and food, lol).  from a cat's perspective, the new kitty will be taken from a shelter/rescue/foster - not an ideal home but it would have become a familiar territory and thus safe. by adopting the cat, all they understand is they were "safe" and now they are in a huge new "unsafe" and unvetted area. the bigger the area, the more threats may lie in wait - such as a resident cat. placing a new cat into - from their perspective - uncertain and possibly dangerous area with unknown threats is very stressful.  now, by placing the new cat in a smaller environment, such as a bathroom, and isolated from the resident kitty does a few things. 1. it is easy for new kitty to assess the threat level of a small area. kitty can explore, check for danger, and feel less stressed knowing nothing is lurking. 2. resident kitty is not present except by smells and maybe sounds outside the door. so the threat is diminished. 3. while new kitty will probably be excited to leave the bathroom faster than the introductions will probably go, introducing them slowly (and keeping the new kitty in the bathroom temporarily) will help all kitties be less stressed.  also, the new kitty doesn't have to stay in the bathroom the whole time - site swapping the cats (put resident kitty in the bedroom or something) will let the new kitty explore and walk around without fear of running into the resident cat. and if the new cat becomes stir-crazy, you can use baby gates stacked up to create a temporary door and allow for more space.  
 thank you furballmom# for the good advice! and replying to my threads!  
 just realize that the soft and warm picture that you have in your mind of them cuddling together is not always how it turns out. i think you know that from your previous experience. your cat may not want another cat in the house.  
 comment made in error, but i don't see how to delete it!  
 i’m not sure if there are other cats. there are neighboor hood cats for sure! i don’t know when they’re around. she is 6y/o i’ve had her since april this year. i spoke to the shelter a hour away and they suggested getting an older male because they are less territorial. he should have similar play styles as her ie feather, ribbon, mouse, stick toys is what she said. the breeder said she might have a male in a couple of months to sell, and she is an expert in cat matching and will help me make the introduction. i feel discouraged i even asked how to introduce two cats. put me on the spot, i feel cornered.  
 im sure you want pictures.  she isn’t here yet. she is getting fixed, i’ll pick her up next week. she has a vet appointment the day after. i’ll have work to do to get her healthy and adjusted. she is grieving for her kitten she was separated from. i’m getting the house ready.  it would be easier to move the residents cat litter box place, and keep the new girl in the master bath attatched to the master bed.  i’m going to try her out on a new litter box place before luna arrives and let sassy decide which part of the house she wants.  the vet will have a lot of intructions for me! the pound was going to eventually put her down.she cn hear and see.  
 that helps a lot! it makes me think of creating a common area where i can have one cat out at a time, or both in time.  i’ll put up a baby gate to separate for safety while i’m not there so neither territory feels violated. yet the territory bounds will be re defined.  i don’t know whether to put all the fun stuff in the neutral area: cat tree? and do i move my things to the neutral area also? the idea is i’ll spend most of my time with one or both cats in the area (desk, chair).   how do i prepare for the worst? i know the articles say take it slow. i’m nervous .      
 i would handle her as little as possible today. cats do heal quicker than us but she had a hysterectomy today, will be recovering from anesthesia, will be traveling with a new human, and moved into a new home. she will likely be groggy and disoriented. offer some gentle pets if she is receptive.   you said you have a vet appt set up for her tomorrow. you have some great questions. take your list to the vet with you and write their answers right on the paper. if i remember what i wanted to ask without notes i forget the exact answer by the time i get home.   take your time and relax. plan something nice for yourself tonight also. a happy movie on tv, a good book, a special take-out dinner, or whatever will distract you from the kitties. even if it is only for 10 min at a time. the calmer you are the calmer they will be.  
 thanks for replying helen, she had revolution, the fleas are dying. her left ear was completely clogged with gunk, i’ll have to irrigate it soon. her incision could look better. her eyes need help. she has explored her enclosure of her room. she is resting on her side and is very receptive to pets. she growls a little when i try to wipe her eyes with the optic solution. the shelter said they were using diluted vinegar. i’ve bathed her because of the smell. brushed her out. dabbed peroxide on her incision.  she eats a little, she hasn’t used the litter box yet.  she is loving through this whole experience. no scratches or bites, she did try to run. she is purring in the photos below. my plans are to keep the kitties separated. i’ve added sassy and my scent to luna’s room. i’ve kept sassy isolated of course. now to finish a late paper and put together a liter box concealer for sassy to watch the birds on.  
 aww, poor kitties! if it's hissing and chasing but no fighting i find that to be pretty good. good thing they have a dedicated and loving guardian to help them out!  
    
 hello and welcome to tcs. smudge and widget are paws-itively beautiful. hopefully they will get along with their new puppy brother or sister.   here's a couple more tcs articles on cat and dog interactions:  caring for cats and dogs introducing cats to dogs  
 meezers, and oriental shorthairs too of course  are the coolest cats in the whole wide world    
 i wish i had advice. what a terrible situation. i think the most important thing to do is isolate petey for now so that you can get monkey out of the rafters. make sure she is not sick from not drinking or eating.  after that, i'd keep them separate and start from scratch. i've seen jackson galaxy do some amazing things in order to help cats get along. but you may need to be willing to add vertical space to your home and all of the other things he suggests.  tough situation.  
 it sounds more like monkey could be sick? the aggression and hiding behavior could be because she's in pain. would it be possible to lure her into a trap so you can get her to the vet?   speaking from personal experience - my kitty was in a terrible situation where she lived fully outdoors for nearly 2 months, after being an indoor/outdoor cat (she used to belong to my landlord, who isn't known for making good decisions). she was roughed up constantly by other cats and left to fend for herself, but she didn't turn feral. she is wilder and more aggressive than she used to be, but that's to be expected as she was traumatized. i saw her a couple times before i went to trap her, and while she was more bitey and wary she was still the same cat at heart. i've had her home for a week now and while her behavior is a little off, she is acting more like the housecat she was every day.  i think with an indoor cat like yours, going feral is even less likely to happen, even if she was lost outdoors for some time. she may be trying to tell you she's sick, and this may have coincided with you bringing petey home. maybe try renting a humane trap and withholding food for a day to see if you can get her in it?  
 how's he doing today?  
 maybe ask your vet about amoxicillin antibiotic. that cured demi's eye gunk.  
 sorry, rewritten because i confused your cats. it is the older cat that is being too rough, not the younger. it will resolve itself as the younger gets a bit bigger but you can try to gently distract them with a joint game, like laser, when she gets too rough. you don’t want to be too negative with her because this could be worse on their relationship and yours with her than doing nothing.  
 it'll sort itself out as he gets older and more assertive.  if she has him down and he's yelling, you could clap or toss a toy or something to interrupt the moment. but don't do anything more than that or you'll create bad associations in her mind toward him. if he isn't hiding from her that means he's not traumatized by her.  
        thanks, but we don't want her to be an indoor cat. she is miserable inside, will refuse to eat and just be generally depressed. she will stay in for longer times during the winter, but she always ends up back outside   
 you might want to just let him do whatever it is he wants to do, without any attention whatsoever from you. don't approach him, or even look at him very much unless you do slow blinks. he is picking up on the fact that you're stressed and upset, and that's bothering him. try some chamomile tea (from the teabags, that's safe for cats), a couple teaspoons a couple times a day (try mixing in his food, possibly), and drink some for yourself also. hang in there!!  
 i'll keep you in my thoughts, that you're able to relax, and also that the snuggles come back   
 oh, definitely, when he's asking you want to provide    
 definitely good ideas, though i can't do the closing of the bedroom door, my studio apartment has none xd. i have the bathroon door, but always feel bad putting one in there to give attention to the other.  
 it is hard to get him as active during a play session as he was before i brought nikita home. the reason being that during play, she is always going, running in and chasing. prince has always been one to sit in place, priming himself before he lunges and gives chase to the toy, so by the time he's getting to that point, guess what-nikita is swooping in. even after having tired her out of a full play session herself, she's still raring to go when i turn my attention to prince. she rests for about five minutes and here she comes. he is able to play better when she's not in the room-the only problem is-the only room with a door is the bathroom.  prince has never actually reacted to catnip, or if he has it's disguised because wild has always been his normal behavior. he was hyperactive as a kitten, and as an adult he seems to be on go most of the time (usually instigating chases with nikita and often going into stalking mode when she walks by). nikita, on the other hand, is driven wild by the catnip.   on another note. before nikita was in the bathroom, i had prince in there while giving her a play session. i went into the restroom and prince was being the lovable self, trying to bunt his head against my hand and trying to get me to give him attention. so, like someone mentioned if i recall, nikita is the key....i just wish her being around didn't mean he didn't want to be around me anymore...  you do have a possible point with the jealous cat thing. i don't know how he could be jealous when he still plays with her a lot and even grooms (unless i've mistaken every time for bullying, because nikita does tend to go into alert if i'm petting her and he comes around); but nikita having been a bit more lovable gets more attention....so maybe he is a jealous cat?  
 this almost helps to make me feel less guilty about my boy - i was just sure it was totally my fault that he had one bad experience at a vet clinic and has been impossible about vet visits ever since. (i've since learned a lot here and will be trying some calming products with him for the next trip - i'm fairly certain i have at least one that will help him). anyway, my point being that your comment is making it clearer to me that it is just so hard to know with cats what they're thinking. whether it was different smells at the clinic this time for prince that frightened him?  after re-reading your post #21, i'm not sure what to think to tell you the truth. it really looks as though as long as he has a chance to act like himself, loving and playing etc, without nikita "butting in" so to speak, things work.   
 yeah and that i don't know what to do about because it does seem like that. he's always been independent and carefree even before nikita came along, but before she came along he'd come sit on my lap or sleep against my chest and so on; but he took his time in doing those things. just like the play session it was like he was prepping himself up....i do notice that nikita is always coming around me, always coming into view. she has to be near me whether it's on top of the desk or wanting to come sniff me if i'm laying down (i just sprayed catnip bliss spray on my shirt and laid down, prince started to be curious then stopped. when i looked over, nikita was sitting on the other side of me)  so what would i do in such a case of needy cat sneaking into the picture every time prince even starts to think about coming for attention? he did this the other night as i was getting ready for bed, got up on top of the couch but when i didn't pet him, ran over to the bed for me to pet him. all the while, nikita was somewhere on the floor or the desk, she wasn't getting in the middle of his vying for affection....so....if he's not pulling away but appears to be because he can't seem to get any attention from the attention-needy cat (for lack of better term) how am i supposed to resolve that?   
 thank you - my last cat was 18 yrs old when he passed and i got him when he was 9 months old, so i could not remember if he was lovable or cuddly when he was young! same with my other cats. my last has been gone for 4 years and i really needed another now and i just love and adore this one i now have!!   
 i understand. i lost my velcro cat at 19 and then adopted a semi feral who wanted nothing to do with me. has taken seven years, and she isn’t exactly a cuddly cat but gives me tons of affection none the less.  
 every kitten has their own unique personality, and they develop in their own unique ways. your kitten may never become a cuddly lap cat - i like the independent ones, myself - but that doesn't mean the kitten doesn't love you.   btw, maybe the kitten didn't pick your husband because he's home and feeds her. maybe she likes his voice, the way he moves around her, his smell or something else.  
 you might want to put a baby gate at the front door so she can’t run out. you would just step over to exit.  
 i certainly had the occasional accident with the foot stomping method -- its hard for every family member to have the required vigilance all the time. and i'm not sure foot stomping would even be worth trying with a family with kids. but in general if your really stomping, its scary to them and they wont dart.  
  also put a tall cat tree by the window. mine is 72 inches! view attachment 251070  
 i would keep an eye on her to make sure she isn't pregnant. she's young but you can't always tell when a cat is in heat and she's spent the night outside.  
 mingo does this, too, and there is nothing i can do to stop it. as i write, he is locked in the garage. i leave him out there when he dashes out, hoping he will stop doing it. for the front door, i lock the screen, so no one coming in can inadvertently let him out. they have to knock or ring the bell.  
 let me know if that works. whenever nalah gets locked or finds that she has no exit, she meows and i get super guilty    
 hi! hang on, breath, and be aware that your kitties are little feline sponges for your emotions  take look at these if you haven't seen them yet even the one about introducing kittens to older cats, and also take a look at youtube videos of cats and kittens playing so you have a reference point for what is too rough.  how to fix an unsuccessful cat introduction  how to successfully introduce cats: the ultimate guide  how to introduce a kitten to an older cat  
 phew! thank you, thank you haha i had just read yesterday that cats can feel the tension in humans which i think might be contributing to their behavior as well. i had been desperately trying to find an article for how to fix a bad introduction with no success so i will definitely be checking out that one you suggested as well as watch some of the youtube vids. and hey, if the cat apps work, i'm willing to try anything to get them to their happy place!   thank you so much!  
 great tips! it has been stressful to say the least, and now that i'm aware of how my stress can effect them, i'll make myself more aware of it and try to contain it around the kitties.   my only other concern is . . . kemo is definitely more energetic, and unfortunately more aggressive, than luna. she's almost half his size and even though i know he's just trying to initiate play time, he starts to nibble at her, which then makes her run and kemo chases after her.   so i guess the best thing to do is, like karenkat suggested, just tire him out before getting them back in the same room together? and put on some of the cat music.   i know it's possible, on only the second day kemo had woken up from a nap when i brought her into the room and he just started licking on her feet and sniffing her, which wasn't bothering luna for a few minutes. i just hope this is something that is easy to mend and they soon become best buds!!   
 .   
 hi! my husband and i have been working on introducing a new cat (stray, that found us) into our 2 cat household. we have been working on this for almost 3 months now. we have been going really slow on the introductions. trying to follow all the recommended steps. we have had lots of progress. and some set backs. new kitty loves being a house cat, it’s like it’s all she ever wanted. but i’m starting to feel concerned these 3 cats my never get along. we are currently in the phase where they eat every meal around each other. also we have been successful with most play sessions as long as we cut it short once things get tense. but my patience is wearing thin. i’m really tired of having our house divided. resident cats seem a little confused as to why we still keep new kitty separate. some days i think to myself ok, this week will be the week. and then it passes and we are still in the same position. here is an example of what’s still stressing us out. last night we fed cats dinner (they eat in the hallway outside kitties base camp) after one resident cat was done eating she walked up to new kitty who was still eating. they both seemed relaxed. then resident kitty walked behind new kitty into the bathroom that is attached to new kitties basecamp. before we knew it new kitty ran after her, screaming and swiping. this has happened before so i wasn’t too worried. i don’t think they hurt each other but it sounds like a back alley brawl. what really stresses me out it is when the other resident cat gets involved, he yowls and screams and it’s scary! suddenly the whole situation feels out of control. luckily we were able to keep male resident cat out of the little bathroom and then grabbed a towel to pick up new kitty and put her in basecamp. i was so shaken up i cried later about it. what should we do? honestly if i had someone who was able to take new kitty i think i would. i miss my two cat household. but i don’t know anyone who wants her and i refuse to stress her out by taking her to a rescue. please give me advice.  
 hi! i'm so sorry this is stressing you out so badly!  a couple of thoughts - can you feed them elsewhere? i think it's too close to new kitty's basecamp, and could be sparking territorial angst on new kitty's part.  is she usually the one who first expresses herself with screams and swipes? if so, can you obtain some calming treats for her? there are a lot of products on the market, with a variety of ingredients such as casein, tryptophan, valerian, chamomile, and some people have had good results with cbd oil although you'd want to double check with your vet just in case.  can you also obtain a calming diffuser? feliway is one although be aware that amazon has third party fake product issues, and thunderease and sentry and probably others have diffusers as well.  in addition you might consider trying music. it's known to help relax cats, and you could try classical harp music, the app relax my cat, kusc.org or musicforcats . com.  one other thing, that works for both cats and people, is chamomile tea from the bags (not loose leaf). give her up to three cooled tablespoons a couple times a day, and have a cuppa for yourself as well because cats are little feline sponges for our emotions.  hang in there - let us know how things go   
 ok, the never doing damage is a good thing.  it's upsetting, and i would want to stop it, but this is loud cat speak that is foreign to human ears. it's defensiveness on the new cats part (2 years old is not a baby, but not exactly a seasoned, wise veteran) and your cats sounded like they handled it very well. we have two colonies here where we live that are separate except for a male that fits well with every one. a few of the cats have rarely, if ever met.  when baby girl was a young nut case and decided she wanted to take on 5 other adult cats, she ran into the room and became a hissing factory. there was hissing, swatting, screaming and growling (mostly from her...). i opened the door, and she hustled back in and then spent another two weeks hanging around the door and puffing up because how dare those other cats live/steal oxygen? i have a brother/sister (litter mate) combo here that have been together since birth. occasionally, they get into it with a lot of dramatic screaming, slapping and hissing, and sometimes fur flies and one rushes off while the other parades with a mouth full of litter mate hair. no harm has ever been done. i would certainly supervise all their interactions, but it's you i worry more about (please don't take offense or be upset, just read on. if you hate my answer, then you can call me a jackass ) you're stressed out. you want this to work and in your eyes it's not, and might never. this is a cat/cat/cat introduction, which is more difficult than a cat/kitten introduction (when the kitten will, 99% of the time, automatically defer to the adult.) this little cat is street smart and has learned that defense works. your adult cats know you well, and when you're stressed out and worried, they are too. if you see a potential problem and freeze up, they will see this and react because to them, the freezing up = new cat might be a problem to the house hold. they know you, and can see this. new cat might see you freezing up and think "new person's freezing up. maybe the other cats are causing problems" and will react. this isn't a "blame yourself" post. this is a post from a guy who has done a lot of introductions wrong and has noticed that our own reactions and anticipations can make or break a fight.  the same goes for dogs. you got your dog on a leash at the vet. another dog comes in, and drags the owner to your dog. they sniff, tails are high, tense, your dog sends you a 1/2 second glance you may not even notice, and if you're tense, staring, or promptly jerk the leash as tight as you can, they might attack the other dog. if you're relaxed (or, as relaxed as possible) and keep the leash loose, odds are your dog won't react unless they're reactive in the first place.   i think the same is for cats. if we're tense, they're tense. if we see them potentially crossing paths and hold our breath, tense up, lean forward, and stare at them, odds are the tension will travel. if they're tense, a movement they aren't expecting will cause a reaction, so if the other cat crosses behind they may react with hissing/claws.   i know, this isn't easy. i'm not picking on you because i see how badly you want this to work and how hard you're trying. and that deserves a lot of credit. you're a really, really amazing cat person/owner for wanting to help not only "new" stray cat (that wants to be a house cat!), but your residents so everyone is happy. please don't take this post as being snippy, just something that might help someone who i think has the right stuff to make it all work! but just do your best to relax. it won't happen overnight, and i know it's easier said than done. i'm the worlds biggest worrier there is!   signed, a fellow worrier!   
 hang in there, i am at the tail end of introducing a 2-yr stray into a 2-cat household and i say i wouldn't wish a long cat introduction on my worst enemy. this is the first time i've introduced a cat, and i probably rushed a few steps. we began last thanksgiving (november), and our major issue was 7ry resident gohan being very territorial and constantly chasing new kitty olive to her safe room anytime she poked her head up. it took 7 months for them to be in the same room without tension, and it was so amazing! it was like we forgot how a stress-free environment could be after all those long months. probably month 3-4 was the hardest, i definitely shed many tears and was mildly depressed from all of the stress. but if it's just defensiveness and territoriality and not attempted murder and real cat fights, it's definitely doable! like @1 bruce 1 said, stay calm and try and relax. you've watch the tiffs enough that you probably know they won't hurt each other most likely. also, try and do some cat-free things each week like a massage or a movie that gives you a break. you are earning it!!  the only advice i have, because it sounds like you are doing all the right things, is to try and territory swap. we couldn't really do this ourselves because we would have had to use carriers and once gohan hears that zipper jingle, he hides for hours. i think it would have really helped our territoriality/chasing issue. basically, new kitty's safe room has become her alamo that she must defend. if you start swapping around the territories without having them meet, then her stuff smells like the resident cats, and the rest of the house smells like her. so it doesn't seem to her that she has to defend one area if the whole place smells like everyone. jackson galaxy has a few stories about this, one i read in his biography cat daddy where a cat was attacking any stranger that would come in the house. he said that with the new baby's things upstairs along with food, litter, toys and cat trees, anything worth defending was in one place and the cat became highly territorial. the issue was solved when they mingled everything throughout the house so the cat felt his territory grow bigger and there was not one room to defend. i know how difficult cat wrangling can be, but maybe switching it up may help.  
 thanks for the pep talk and advice! we do site swapping every day. i don’t want anyone to think the own and part of the house. but new kitties sleeps with us every night as this is her basecamp. i also have read jackson galaxys newest book which helped a lot at first it was like our guide to all this.  thanks again! i know in my heart we will get there  
 @moefridapearl , you are definitely in a better place than i was! hopefully they start to get along soon!  
 update! after 3 months 10 day (but who’s counting) my 3 cats are hanging out! sharing the whole house and loving having the whole house opened up! they have been hanging out since sunday evening. only closing the door to basecamp at bed time and when they are home alone. soon i think we will leave them together all the time. the biggest lesson i have learned over this 1/4 of a year project is... this is a marathon not a race. also that my cats feed off my energy way more that i ever knew... i wish i would have know that 15 years ago when i got my first kitten. anyway, i just needed to brag and i knew a few fellow cat lovers would understand. thanks for all the advice and support.  
 i rescued a kitten last fall. he is adorable and has great habits. i already had 2 geriatric kitties and 2 small dogs. i feel guilty because i don’t have time to play with him and as a result he’s not much of a cuddler. he plays well by himself, with the dogs and with toys. of course he is fed and properly vetted. he will lay on the bed with me from time to time. should i think about finding him a home where he can get more attention? one of the old cats—20 years old—takes up a great deal of my cat time!  
 yes playing with strangers is the bonus round. i would guess the cat senses they would benefit from more time with you. but keep up the 1 on 1. maintain the bond and kitty will be ok   
 hi, i love my cat. he is 11 years old and my family adopted him a few years ago. he has some separation anxiety issues and constantly wants attention and love, which my family are happy to give (though he struggles with night time, as most of us like to sleep with our doors closed).   however, he doesnt like me and im not sure why? he wont come into my room at night when hes crying that hes lonely, and he seems to still feel separation anxiety even if im home and in his line of sight or interacting with him.   i dont bother him by picking him up or petting him constantly, take care to read his body language and leave him alone, and im responsible for feeding him at least half of the time. my brother does bother him, annoying him and getting him to hiss (which is crazy because he is such a gentle loving cat), and he still seeks out my brother instead of me.   i am not an experienced cat owner! is it possible im unintentionally making my cat want less time with me? (i still love him so much and if its not my behaviour, its just he doesnt love me for no real reason, ill live with that haha)  
 it sounds to me like you are doing all the right things. sometimes a cat simply prefers certain people. it isn’t that he doesn’t like you.  
 i'm sorry to be the bearer of bad news, but you're going to have to separate them and start over from scratch. the good news is that it can be successfully done. these articles will help:  how to successfully introduce cats: the ultimate guide how to fix an unsuccessful cat introduction  since your resident cat is clearly stressed, i'm including these as well: is your cat stressed out? six surefire strategies to reduce stress in cats  my other advice is to get a good enzymatic cleaner and (if needed) a black light to find any urine, and thoroughly clean all areas where nacho has expressed his anxiety. you don't want linger scent to draw him back there.  this will take time. i've seen very successful introductions that took weeks, and a few that took months, but they all ended very well, indeed!  
 also, they aren't actually fighting. they both hang out in the living room on different couches, and the only time we get hissing or growling (only from nacho, rex is unconcerned, if anything he wants to play and is disappointed nacho doesn't) is when rex decides he wants to pounce on nacho hoping to play. my biggest concern is nacho's stress. he's a grumpy old man to start with and i'm worried about him.  
 hey everyone! new to the forum here! i have a male yellow tabby named henry, i rescued him when he was 8 weeks old and he has the most unique personality ever. i have had cats all my life and heard people say that yellow tabby's have a different kind of personality. but man! he can be loving as ever one minute, attacking rough the next. he cuddles like right up in my face every time i sit down. he does the love bites (seems like if he isn't getting what he wants) sometimes gentle and soft but sometimes very rough. if i'm not paying attention to him he will sit and meow at me up a storm. he is super rough with other our other cats, not in a fighting way but play rough. henry is super smart, i have taught him how to sit and speak for treats, he plays fetch and can do some tricks! he knows when my husband starts pouring my coffee in the morning it is time to get up and will come bolting into the bedroom and start rubbing and nibbling my face. he is so attached to me....can even display separation anxiety if i'm outside or gone for a few days. it drives my family nuts lol. my question, can different colors of cats seriously have different personalities?? what is your experience?  
 i am not sure about the colors and personalities, but i've had two tuxedo cats in my life and they were both very bossy!  
 hi! i'm going to guess that they do dream in color, but my boy definitely dreams. i can't tell if he's fighting another cat, chasing a squirrel, chasing a bug ..  
 there's been a couple times he's been twitching so much i decided better not to touch him because i wasn't sure how he'd react. like, if he actually is dream-fighting, i didn't want to be the other cat in his dream ...so i just talk to him and he calms down   
 both of mine dream. they don't make any noise, but do move their feet and their whiskers. doesn't happen very often.  as for their prey, other than toys, it's pretty much limited to stink bugs, house flies and an occasional moth. i don't think they've ever seen a mouse.  
 cats dream, they did studies on it. one of my cats talks in his sleep. sometimes it seems like he is fighting; from his sleep meowing sounds and paw twitches. that or he is maybe winning a fight and imagines himself super cat? who knows?  
 i guess since you already get crickets for your gecko, bugs don't bother you, but i, personally, wouldn't want to "invite" bugs into my house.   i'm not even sure, though, that you should encourage her to watch something in a terrarium, especially with your gecko. i'd be afraid somehow your cat would get bored with her bugs, and manage to knock over the gecko's terrarium.  tcs has a couple article that might help you find something to entertain her. bored cat? what cat owners need to know (including 10 actionable tips) playing with your cat: 10 things you need to know  
 will your gecko also eat grasshoppers? i wonder if you can buy "feeding" grasshoppers and simply keep those the same way you keep your crickets. that way you'll have a use for them too. i know you said you wanted a flying bug, but grasshoppers can go quite ways when they jump, and some species of them have wings....idk. just throwing it out there  
 i treated my cat for fleas using frontline yesterday, he's nvr had a problem before. he wasn't real happy when we put it on and now he won't let us pet, hold, get near him. could he be mad at us?  
 hi! cats only react like that if they've been hurt. the frontline may be causing a reaction. can you call your vet?  
 ever since the flea treatment he has been mean and nasty. hisses at us even if we just walk by. holding anymore, don't even think of it. could this be associated to the flea treatment?  
 he is mostly an inside cat. goes out sometimes during the day, usually just when it's warm.  this is how lit one and him are. but this morning when she tried to boop him, he hissed at her. i tried to look to see if the skin was red and he hissed at that. but, i didn't see anything different about his skin. the frontline was from our vet and the other two got it and didn't bat an eye.  
 how do i edit a post? lol i called gran cat a she and it was a he lol. i cant find edit button.  
 oh thank you so much rubysmama for the information and for the condolences for our sweet boy gran gran.   
 oh how nice! thank you rubysmama.   
  f u n!    
 all our cats have enjoyed watching the birds, chipmunks, and squirrels. we had a feeder in a second story window. the squirrels would climb up to it, which was fine. squirrels are as interesting as birds. one squirrel was a frequent visitor. one cat would sneak up on the window and pop her head up. frequent visitor would clutch his heart with both hands, flip over backwards out of the feeder. what we didn't see at first was that with the flip he landed on the brick wall and climbed back up. the cat loved it. it took mom awhile to recover.  now we tend to throw bird seed on the deck and step back.  one boy cat would get so excited he would lunge at the window and smack it head first. (he was never outside) this didn't hurt him. sweet gum bats the window with her paw, she's not into head slamming.  so i guess the answer is, it only taunted my mom.  
 really, i think i know the answers will be all over the spectrum, but would like to hear about the experiences of the forum. last week at this time, i lived alone in my apartment with my 2 adult cats, scottie and zelda. i had scottie for almost a year. in that time, he lived with my then gf's girlfriends cat for a few months before she moved out. scottie seemed mopey and clingy afterwards, so i thought since he was so social he needed a kitty pal, especially on the days i worked and had night class. so, i adopted zelda from the humane society because she seemed especially friendly with the other cats. the first week of introduction was dicey, but after that she moved from tolerating scottie to sleeping by him and trying to get him to play.  sadly, i lost scottie earlier this week. his death still stings temondously, and i noticed it has impacted zelda. for example, she sniffs at his favorite napping spits, meows, and looks around. the pic i attached below is her laying on the bed where he liked to sleep right after she did what i described above.  so i guess my loaded question is, for those of you who have brought in a second cat after one has passed, how long did you wait? i honestly don't think zelda would thrive as a single kitty, but i am sure there are grief/smell dynamics/etc to consider. of course, there is also my own grief because scottie and i had a special instant bond....  the last time i went through this was when an ex's cat died. through circumstance, a kitty at a petco reached at her through a cage and melted her heart. it had only been two weeks since her kitty died when she adopted this one, and it helped lifted her spirits and the spirits of the cat who was left behind, but i assume this is very atypical.  
 i had no idea on the harp music! may have to try this myself with 2 of the cats who are having issues with one another.    
 hi,  i'm willing to concede that a light smack may not do physical damage, but i can see where others might be concerned about your methods.  as you've probably heard before, animals have a much harder time than humans making the connection between "punishment" and their actions. if that connection isn't there in your kitten's mind, then he might become fearful of you (because he doesn't understand what he did wrong), or he might associate the punishment with something completely different that what you meant it for.  also, it sounds to me like part of the issue is your kitten's energy level, in which case you might have good success with positive methods such as giving him play sessions lots of time per day.  once things calm down, would you be willing to talk with someone you trust and has some expertise in cat behavior (say your veterinarian or someone from your local shelter) about how to work with both your cats? if so, that might be a compromise that would satisfy your parents and help you.  by the way, i sympathize with you. i am going through something similar with my young cat felix and my older cat trixie. he's not deliberately mean to her (at least, i don't thank so), but he can get a little rougher than i would like with her at times.  
 personally, i would never hit an animal or child. there are so many other things that can be tried first. i use a horn or whistle sometimes if my cats are doing something especially naughty, like messing with electrical wires.  
 for those of you worried about my kitten's health. heres an update;  hes currently not vomiting but also being very clingy to me. moreso than normal. i think he may be a bit scared since he vomited out all the food he ate recently.  he is drinking water a bit tho, i've been reminding him when i'm up--since he won't leave my lap when i'm sitting--to drink and he has drank a little as long as he can see me. otherwise, he follows me.  i would take him to the vet tomorrow regardless to make sure hes okay,--that aren't open right now--but i don't have money to afford it.  i'd post up a link to the e-mail i use for one of my paypals for if people wanted to donate a bit to help so i could get him checked out, but i'm not sure if i'm allowed to do that so i don't plan to unless i get an okay from one of the staff.  i'm going to be watching over him for the rest of the night to make sure he drinks lots of water and monitor his health.  
 i tried shaking something loud at him. doesn't work. again tho, i don't hit him hard enough for it to be more than a hard tap, so hes not being 'hurt'. i'm not abusing him, nor do i do more than one. hes not being beat, its just a pap to the butt and a 'no.' which works much better than other methods. which i already don't use often.  i can get if you don't agree with the method, but what works for one cat doesn't always work for another. so its always best to try to be respectful of someone else's method as long as they aren't actually harming/abusing the animal.   
 i never asked you guys to tell me what i'm doing is okay or not okay. i wanted to know if my kitten was going to die if i can't get him to a vet or if my folks can legally take my cats from me or not. the other information was only for context. thats it. but everyone jumped over the whole point to lecture someone having a panic attack in fear their kitten is going to die instead.   
 let me just start by saying that although i agree with what others have said, i'm sorry that you are feel you're not getting the responses you're looking for. i must say though, that i had to reread your post, because just like others on this thread, i too was focused on your behavior modification methods, and to be frank, that was what most of your post seemed to be about, so forgive me for thinking that is what you wanted advice on. to answer your questions about loosing your cats. pets are seen as property, so if they are yours, living in your home, and you care for them, your parents should have no right to have them taken away. if they were to file a complaint with the proper authorities, and they feel you are unfit to care for pets though, that is a different situation. and a time out room (that is used for short periods (15-20 minutes) and a few spanks (although i don't agree with this), if your cats physical, emotional and medical needs are met. i don't believe would give them cause to deem you unfit, so you should be fine on that aspect.  when it comes to the dish soap, how is your kitty feeling now? has he stopped vomiting, and started eating ok? if so, i think you should be fine but if he has not started eating yet, you might want to think about getting him to a vet. cats can't go without food for more than 48 hours before they are at risk of developing fatty liver disease, which is very dangerous. if he is still feeling nauseous because of the soap and throwing up so much, try giving him something that is a treat for him. (tuna water on some wet food, a different flavor of wet food, plain boiled chicken (no spices) etc... a little treat might entice him enough to start eating on his own again. but as i said, bring him to the vet if he does not improve soon, and if he has improved, you should be good to go, just keep an eye on him. i hope i have provided you with some useful information, but keep in mind that i'm not a vet nor do i know the exact laws where you are, so this is just an opinion. i do hope you are able to find positive ways to train your kitty and that you all stay happy and healthy. good luck with everything!   
 i think it is probably legal for your parents to take the kitties if they are the ones providing for them. it sounds like they provide all of the vet care, how about food and litter and other supplies? if it's a mix, i'm not sure how that would play out.  i don't know the whole situation, but your best bet is probably to find a way to get the money to provide for your cats yourself. if the house is in their name, you might want to find a place that you can afford on your own. this will provide more of a barrier between them and your life choices. i realize that won't be easy or something you can do overnight, but hopefully you can hold your parents off for a while until you can. it doesn't sound like your parents are likely to ever come around to your methods though, whatever they are.  hopefully the links are helpful, i need to try some new things to adjust my kitten's behavior as well!  good luck with everything!  
 i'm past the point where i could get him to contain him in another room. they arent hostile at all, just s bit of hissing. i had figured if they really hated each other they would have fought by now. new cat tried sniffing the 3 year olds bum and he didnt like that, resulted in a hiss. however, he is the sniffer and groomer, hates being the sniffee or groomee. they are acting like nothing is different for the most part. they dont follow him around or anything. just if they get too close there is a hiss or two. if the new one swats it's not with claws out, and the 3 year old will immediately back off. he is great about accepting other cats....maybe i'm just expecting too much? new cat wont even let us pet him yet but he was super lovey in the shelter.  
 just hissing with no real aggression is not a bad start!  especially since it's only been a couple of days at this point.   how are they doing today?  
 i don't know what may be causing this problem but i would like to say please, please don't have this poor guy put down. it may be a medical problem, cats have no way of verbalizing when they are ill, and often 'tell' us in the form of behavior changes that they aren't feeling 'up to par'. i think it definitely wouldn't hurt to take him to be checked out by a competent vet. if he isn't feeling well, it may be making him cranky. i'm no expert by far, but i'd hate to see you give up on this little guy.  
 i agree with your husband that your poor kitty was probably overwhelmed by all of the activity. but, i also agree with melissa, that it is probably a good idea to take him to the vet just in case.  also...please take yourself to a doctor....cat bites become wickedly infected very quickly. you will likely need antibiotics and a tetinus shot.  good luck!  
 is he an inside kitty? inside/outside kitty? are his shots current, and if he does go outside is it possible he tangled with another cat and has a wound somewhere you can't see at the moment? and is that the only thing he is doing attacking you? can you pet him without him crying, does he act off in any other way? eating and drinking okay? his ears okay- sometimes ear mites make kittys go nutso for a bit till they clear up.  
 cats are very funny animals. they don't like any kind of change or disruption. it could be that with everything going on, all the noise and stuff, they're stressed out. if you can, try and put them in a quiet room that you will not be working on, with their litterbox, food, water, some toys and soft music, if possible. it sounds like stress to me, and only temporary.  good luck and keep us posted.  
 i think a trip to the vet wouldn't hurt,just to make sure it isn't a medical problem, but i really think from what you described that he was just upset. shortly after we moved here, i picked up my 20 lb. baby to comfort him during a storm and he got me in a head lock, bit my ear, and proceeded to smack me several times on both sides of my head. he has always been a very gentle kitty other than that. he checked out fine, and the vet said it was probably just a case of nerves. please don't give up on him over this. i know it was scary and probably made you mad, but i really think he was just reacting to strange circumstances. maybe if you have any more work to do on your house, you should confine him to one area so he can't see it. the strange new smells are probably sensory overload for him. my sister had a similar episode when she put down new carpet. her cat hid on the top of the refrigerator and jumped on her head. he has never done anything like that before or since. please give him at least a little time before you make a decision on this. if he is normally gentle and has no medical problems, i really think this was an isolated incident. i hope this helps you and good luck!  
 well, the fish went to the vet on tuesday. dr. c (the vet, whom i asolutely adore) checked him over, pronounced him healthy (but 3lbs overweight) and basically said what everyone else has told me. he was stressed by all of the activity, furniature moving, etc & reacted out of fear. she also suggested that i clean that room out & look for something else that he may have been defending.  good news. and also, rugger and i have completely forgiven each other now. he slept on my chest last night with his face about 1/2 inch from mine, purring away contentedly.  thanks all for your concern!  
 i have experienced a similar attack. my cat stays indoors. one normal day, i went to his area that he stays in. i groomed him as usual and recplaced his food and litter as usual. i bent down to pick up the trash i collected and all of a sudden he hissed, then growled and in a blink of an eye started scratching and biting. i ran away outdoors and he started running behind me and scratching and biting more and more. i ended up locking him in his room and bleeding so much. from that day he acts normal with everyone else but the moment he sees me he comes and wants to attack me the same way fiercly. i am really sad because i am attached and its been a long time. this is so wierd. i am frustrated and shaken badly.  
 i forgot to say spanky is now 8 my other cat is 11, i tried calmatives wall plug spraying my yard so animals would not come around. but he was  getting worse as time went on .   
 the first thing you need to do is get those deep punctures attended to by a doctor immediately.  cat bites are very dangerous.  even if your cat is an inside cat, still, their close together teeth harbour bacteria which are effectively injected deep into you with a deep bite.  please attend to this right away.  a relative nearly lost half her arm after a redirected aggression bite when she broke up a cat fight and was badly bitten and did not have it looked at right away.  she also had to take time off work to attend to her arm when it got extremely swollen and then she did finally go to doctor.  at the very least you need a tetanus shot.  i think your cat is stressed by the acitivities going on in your house.  i wouldn't get rid of him but i would be very careful till this episode of massive cleaning ends.  when you go to the doctor the cat may have to be quarantined whether he is up to date on his rabies shot or not.  that's what would happen where i live, other places may have different rules.  here if you can safely quarantine at home you may.  eta:  i now see this thread is very old but i will leave my comments.  cat bites can be extremely dangerous to people.   
 i have been reading about this, but everything doesn't fit:  hyperesthesia syndrome.  
  karen, i just now googles it and other peoples' vets have apparently recommended this after trying other things, so it can be done.  sp  
 this is not the answer. your cat would be mutilated and in pain. i would have her put down before inflicting such horrible surgeries on her.   
 yikes...it is a radical suggestion, but i will definitely consider if. i hope it never comes down to having to make a decision. i know they can chew soft food with no teeth, but she is so young. all of my other cats eat canned, but she will only eat kibble. i have read where canned is actually better for them, but they used to be the opposite. i just hate the thoughts of her being in pain. de clawing is cruel and i can't imagine how painful the other would be. i am between a sword and a blade! i definitely don't want to give her up, but i don't want her to suffer just so i can keep her with me.  she seems to go on one of her rampages right at bed time....many other times throughout the day, but it has always been at bedtime here lately. whenever i turn the light out, she immediately jumps up on my bed and goes to sleep, but last night she ran out and started racing through the house. she came back in and when i turned my light on, she was standing on the floor, staring up at me with those huge pupils. i don't like being afraid of her. i wish i knew what her trigger was. if i were wealthy, she would be undergoing a of test.  the vet's office called this am and said to keep giving her the half pills, twice daily. he still does not recommend the liquid form, but i was hoping that he would.  i am going out of town until sunday, and my friend is going to take care of her, here. she knows him well, so i'm not too concerned.  i just hope she doesn't attack him.    karen  
 this is an inside cat?  friends had one similar.  she got better when they moved to a 20 acre property and it was safe(r) to let her outside.  outside she seemed able to burn off more energy and be calmer with them but they still could not go on vacation as were unable to board her and she still attacked strangers like the neighbour who tried to come in to feed her and change her litter.  fwiw i agree than in a matter of life and death i would try to remove teeth and claws.  my own old girl lost all her teeth naturally and was still able to eat kibble.  declawing is a horrendous thing to do to a cat, but i'd try it before death by euthanasia.  some cats are fine after the operation.  i wish a colleague who was marrying a new man who didn't want her two cats to scratch his leather chesterfield had tried declawing instead of pts.  then the wedding was called off, she never married him, and she had no cats.  so sad.  
 karenrhyne, whatever you decide to do, i hope it works out for both you and the kitty. it sounds like redirected aggression to me, but i am no veterinarian. i can tell you that i do not believe killing her is the answer, i want you both to be happy and fear-free! i believe that my previously- stated idea is valid, and it is definitely something that i would consider under your circumstances, but of course, it can only be your decision. making her a farm cat if necessary? my cat still tried to attack me even after he was outside, and he meant business!!!! maybe she would be ok out on a farm, who knows? on the other hand, you already love her and she loves you and she is safe inside, it's you that's not safe and secure. i'd like to see her stay with you , because you seem like a kind, caring person, but you have to consider the security and safety of each of you. maybe the medicine will work out??? maybe try the liquid to see if it works out better for her than the uneven dosage of pills. let me know what you decide, please. thanks.  
 ok, so i am just gonna leave this here..  http://www.pawproject.org/faqs/  up until a few days ago, there was the pawproject documentary which could be viewed for free. now, anyone who wants to see it they have to pay. the woman who's conducted the research is a veterinerian and tries to raise awareness regarding declawing.. i had the chance to watch it a few days ago, although i wish i hadn't.. i was already against declawing, but the documentary graphicly explained what declawing really is and what it can cause to a cat's bone structure and psychological balance..   the link i am giving you is a frequently asked questions section which does explain a lot too..   fyi people take teeth out and don't hurt when a tooth is decayed or loose (like a small kid's teeth). when it is a healthy tooth and someone extracts it to put on braces for example (like i did), you're in for a world of pain and antibiotics.. but, at least you're a human who knows what's going on and you don't get traumatized.. for a cat, it won't be the case, cause she/he will not know what happened and why she/he are in a such excruciating pain..  taking advice from a behaviorist, will solve a lot of problems.. a veterinerian is not always the solution because it's not their field of expertise, but they can give you advice according to their experience..  taking claws and teeth away from a cat, is just going to cause a whole new set of problems..  i really hope you'll figure out a way to coexist with your cat and solve this problem in collaboration with her, instead of making decisions without her.   
 i am well aware of the reasons for not declawing.  i am currently seeking further vet advice.  i am not sure the phenobarbital is even working. she is still going on rampages, but maybe it hasn't had a chance to fully get into her system.  the vet said i would not see any changes for at least a week, and it's been 2 weeks.  the bad thing is, now i do not know if her clumsiness if due to the underlying problem, or the drug. she seems to be worse in that area. she becomes over-stimulated very quickly. playing with her only seems to excite her more. her pupils stay enlarged a great majority of the time. i got a few samples of  "calming" treats" that some of my cat friends find very useful, but cissy will not touch them.  someone else suggested rescue remedy (i tried this years ago, and it worked....but that cat never attacked and was just a little nervous) or feliway. i do not have the $$ to get into a lot of blood work, an mri,etc. but, if she continues on the phenebarbital, she will definitely need liver tests done. sadly, if her problem is mental, i am afraid there will be no treatment. she is still sleeping on the bottom of my bed. she still insists on jumping on my night stand and knocking things off.  in the morning, she will do this continually, until i get up....then she stops. that sounds behavioral. she still tries to chew on cords, anything plastic or paper. i had a cat once who liked to lick plastic grocery bags, but she did not try to actually eat them. the vet says he does not think it's pica, but rather, behavioral. but he thinks the aggression is neurological.  also, she is gaining weight. for the past 4 weeks, she has only eaten science diet for weight control. she looks pooched out on both sides. it has more fiber and she does poop twice daily instead of once. i wish she would eat canned. vets used to recommend dry only, but now it's the opposite.   
 thank you, mani!  i spoke with several people today, who are totally against declawing, but they all said if it came down to a life or death situation, they would have it done.  but...the teeth are the real problem. cat scratches are very bad, but i believe bites are more dangerous. the fact is, even if i were to have that done, she may be end up being not only maimed, but still "sick."  even though she could not physically hurt me, she could still be in pain herself, from whatever may be wrong with her. as many people as i have spoken to over the past 2 weeks, not one soul has ever heard of a cat doing this, unprovoked.  the animal control officer said it was not uncommon. i do not have cable, but if i did, i would watch every episode of "my cat from hell."     
 yes, exactly! there is something deeply troubling your cat and you are working to get to the bottom of it. removing her claws and teeth could potentially make you feel safer, but imagine what it would do to her. and she would still be sick.   
 @mani  of course! the reason why i wrote what i wrote was out of support, not criticism.. i apologize if it might seem that way!  what i meant by "making decisions without her", was mainly about the declawing/dental options. had i not seen that @karenrhyne  is really trying to solve this, i wouldn't even bother to give any advice or opinion..  it's just that the declawing/dental issues can indeed create a multitude of problems and i had to stress that it is not to the cat's benefit.  @karenrhyne  i truly apologize if i seemed like criticizing or "judging" in a negative way! trust me, i wasn't! we are all here to help and enlighten you (and everyone else) based on our own experiences      
 take my word for it @karenrhyne  it is well worth it. i had a really disturbing incident a year ago, with my grizzly.. he attacked my mother so viciously, she had to go to the hospital and her wounds were being treated for months, because the ignorant doctros stiched them, instead of treating them to drain.. we went through hell.. honestly, i can totally relate to what you're going through. the fear, the anxiety, the panic.. all of that.  i was not in a good financial state when it happened, but still i hired a behaviorist. mind you, here in greece, there is only one behaviorist.. i was lucky enough he exercises his occupation in the same city i live. i hired him, in spite of all the expense, he cut me a deal, due to my unemployment and we got to work. i will never ever ever regret hiring him. he helped us a great deal.. it was a slow process but we got to keep grizzly with us and we managed to learn how to handle him from scratch. he is so much better now. we gave him meds to calm him down, but it was not for long, because he would "detect" the pills by smelling them in anything i put them in!   that was hillarious, to be honest! so, i got down to mainly work with him. i stopped the meds, as it was a truly stressful process for both him and me and it ended up not helping.  now, my cat's aggression was solved with the help of a behaviorist. it is just one case. we don't know if it is the same case with your cat. but a behaviorist can identify some traits of your cat, to conclude more safely whether this is a medical issue, or a bevioral issue..   my recommendation would be to take some videos of your cat while she's "rampaging" or behaving abnormally.. try to contact a behaviorist and ask them to send them these videos via email or upload them on youtube, so they can view them.. try to make a deal with them and explain to them that you cannot afford their whole fee..  if you send them the videos, you will help them identify your problem without making them visit all the way to your house. so, my guess is that they might lower their price, or might even not ask for any money.. it doesn't hurt to try!   i hope this helps!   tcarter525 said: ↑  animals are super sensitive to everything around them, especially cats. you may all think i am crazy for what i am about to say but here goes. we have had 2 dogs and 2 cats in the last 20 years, while raising 5 children. in november of 2004 our 18 year old daughter was killed in an auto accident, after that our dogs would get really strange sometimes. they would be playinf and wrestling and all of the sudden they would just stop and both would just stare at the same spot in the room. now during this time there were times i was sure i felt my daughter almost physically touch me, i do believe there are things beyond our compression around us. one of our dogs developed arthritis so bad that we finally had to make the decision. our other dog continued on and we adopted a cat for my mother in law. the cat found places that it absolutely would not go near and would also just stop what it was doing and stare at the same spot as the dogs. second dog also developed arthritis severe and finally had to be put down due to pain. then we adopted the second cat. cats got along, but they would both stop and stare at the same spot at different times. they see and sense on a whole different plane than we do. sometimes when renovating a house things might be disturbed, chech the history of the houses along with the medical side of things.  and with the pills, if you couldn't cut them and the pharmacy couldn't cut them equally, your cat is not getting a steady dose. have you ever taken meds that have to stay in your system to help with pain or depression? if you miss a dose it screws up your system. your vet needs to understand that she is not gepping a steady dose and either write for the exact dose in pill form or give you liquid. i have had doctors write scripts for me and say, take half a pill. great, the med only comes in a capsule. get other opinions, and if necessary change vets.  just my 2 cents. i hope you are able to find a solution and keep your baby.click to expand...  oh @tcarter525  believe me.. you do not sound crazy at all.. at least in my eyes.. i have so many similar examples like the one you're referring to.. yes, animals do sense what we cannot sense.. at least not conciously..   i lost a very good friend of mine on friday the 16th.. i'd been trying to reach her for a couple of days, with no answer.. i had the ugliest feeling.. for no reason at all. she was not sick or anything. there had been times that we hadn't talk for several days, but i never had this ugly feeling.. grizzly seemed a bit "depressed" too.. and on friday, he was staring at a certain spot in my room.. in the thin air.. there was nothing. i tried to play with him, just to "snap him out of it".. he didn't give me any attention.. he kept staring. i left my apartment to run some errands and when i got back, i got the news. my friend had died of brain aneurysm and had been in the hospital for the last 2 days..   when i hanged up the phone, i was devastated, confused.. i hadn't cried yet at that point. but i was in deep silence. what grizzly did? he came up to me and touched me with his front paws.. in a discrete manner.. like he wanted to give me my space but also let me know he is there and he understands. he sat like this with me for a while.. but then i had to stand up and finish up some things, i've been dealing with, for some time now.. my world shuttered, but i had to go on..   my point is, he knew.. i know, he knew.. i don't know if he knew the particular fact.. but he sensed something was terribly wrong and it would affect me..  so, no, you don't sound crazy     p.s. i am so sorry for your loss.. i'm sure your daughter is looking out for you      
 it's trust.  and going from completely trusting a pet that you love, to all of the sudden not trusting a pet (that you still love)?   it's gut wrenching.  if you knew why your cat attacked you.  your problem would be solved.  (just don't put cat in that situation again). if it's play aggression?  you can go back to trusting cat, and just be careful.  if it's just downright trying to kill aggression?  then you just need to try to figure out what happened to "set the cat off".  and this type of aggression is when a cat latches onto you and sinks it's teeth in to the bone, won't let go, and is, or was growling.  this kind of stuff sends you to the hospital, or makes you think you should go to the er, even if you don't.  if it does this for no apparent reason, you have a problem.  if you can figure out any possible reason, you have pending solution. if it does it more than once for just no reason what-so-ever?  you have a tough decision to make because that cat probably isn't a "pet" in the normal sense of the word.  (and removing claws and/or teeth isn't going to help one bit)  and, one more bit about a trying to kill bite.  if unprepared, a scruff grab and twist with enough force to choke will work to get the cat to let go.  it's not anything to remotely be proud of, but, it's the cold hard truth when you are in that situation. or, if you by any means ever expect it to happen?  prepare in advance by carrying a tiny perfume spray bottle (filled with vinegar) around with you.  if in that situation, and you have your wits about you, grab the that bottle and spray point blank on the nose.  cat will let go immediately.  the only problem with this is actually doing it.   when a cat has you with a kill bite, usually calm collective thinking is nowhere to be found. but, perfume bottle with vinegar will work. (and don't dilute it)    
 karen, it is a shame that the liquid form may not be a great option. i am also a little concerned that your cat is falling and not on her feet, but this is a situation in which one has to choose the lesser of the evils in order to get a long-term solution. please keep me posted because i am concerned. although i am not checking for others' posts about this subject any longer, i will read yours. thanks.  
 there are long term psychological and physical damages to declawing and pulling all teeth. i think if a cat is suffering and there is nothing to be done then it should be put to sleep.   i deeply hope that they can find a medical solution here that does not involve putting a bandaid in the form of mutilation on this poor cat.   
 sorry to hear about your negative experience!  i can only imagine how hard that must have been for you!  cats who had to grow up without the discipline they normally receive from their mom & litter-mates often do have behavior problems.  that may be the basis for what happened with your cat ... and you leaving him for that period of time may be what triggered that underlying behavior tendency to 'erupt'.   "feline aggression: when fluffy attacks," is an online article written by, karen becker dvm, who trained in both conventional & holistic animal health care.  you might want to read the comment one of her reader's shared: "a story about overcoming cat aggression."  they suspect their problem cat was taken early from his mother & litter-mates, so didn't get the kind of discipline needed from its family on how to behave ... and he ended up attacking their elderly cat, & the owner regularly.  she shares the methods they used to calm him down.  (the article shares more about that.)  
 no offense taken.  i know everyone is just trying to help, and i appreciate it!   
 oh, i could write a book about how super sensitive animals are. i have said for years, we will never know how intelligent they really are, and it's probably a good thing that we don't understand some of the things they see that we don't see.  they do have extra senses and we would probably be scared if we knew some of the things they knew.  it can seem creepy at times, especially when they start staring at something.  i am sure you have heard about the cat who knows when someone is going to die.  i believe there are probably many more cats (as well as other animals) who can sense this.  humans are using dogs to sniff out certain cancers.  god created them just like he did us, and they have purpose.  my big beef with my vet is the uneven dosages. he says the liquid taste bad, but once it's down her throat, i doubt if she could spit it out.  i spoke with 2 other vets. one of them suggested 1/4 of a tramadol with 1/2 of a benadryl.  he obviously feels she is in pain. i am happy to report that for now, she is better!! maybe it has taken this long for the med to have gotten into her system....even though the doses are not exact. for the past 2 days, she has been almost a purrfect cat. only a few very short rampages. she still jumps on my night stand and knocks things to the floor when she wants me to wake up.  i ended up crating her around 3am yesterday, for about 2 hours. i did sleep some, but finally let her out when her meowing got loud. after that, she did not jump up there again!  i wish i knew of something i could put there to make her stop. has anyone had any experience with sticky paws?  i am not sure how that would work, because i have things there that i need to be there. i used to keep a lot of things there, before she started jumping there....but i can't move my alarm clock, lamp, etc.    
 i cannot find the post i want to reply to, but to whomever suggested i make a video and send it to a cat behaviorist....i might do that!  excellent idea. someone else suggested i send one to the cat from hell show. i have never seen it because it comes on cable, but i have heard all about it.  i am praying that cissy's better behavior continues.    
 for trying to stop cissy jumping up on your side table or other places she goes and then knocks things off for attention, it might be worth trying the sticky tape idea described here.   it isn't expensive and if it works can work pretty quickly too.  
 i haven't seen that show either due to not having cable.   however, i may have something else for you that will prove helpful:  "feline-centric tunes may be music for your kitty's ears"   http://healthypets.mercola.com/sites/healthypets/archive/2016/09/22/cat-species-specific-music.aspx  i found that special music helped calm my dog during the 4th of july racket.  they say it helps cats, too. (:   
 it sounds to me more like she is a bright little cat and too full of energy and mischief.  your description of her rampages and testing out doing things she knows you will react to and looking at you that way sounds exactly like a young mouse, and an older one when he's in a cheeky mood.   he wraps his fangs round what ever he can find that he's sure is banned and then looks directly at me....      ignoring is so hard but it is the only thing that has worked for getting him to stop doing such things constantly.   i had to wait for him to stop and go off to try something i wanted him to do then reward with the attention.  it is a wierd concept for us humans (unless perhaps we have had a very neglected childhood) but for cats, any attention no matter how mean and unpleasant will reinforce attention seeking behaviours.  it can make then nervous and skittish at the same time but still they will repeat the behaviour because they got a response.      if there is some less easily dislodged sticky material than regular stucky tape to try on that side table i think it is worth trying - anything in an attemt to break the cycle of behaviour there, and also the use of squirty bottle which can add anxiety and therefor unpredicatable behaviours.   (i used to have 2 cats who liked water and it had no effect at all on them other than getting a response from me).  
 good luck with the spray and all.....i am anxious for a solution.  stacci  
    mservant said: ↑    it sounds to me more like she is a bright little cat and too full of energy and mischief.  your description of her rampages and testing out doing things she knows you will react to and looking at you that way sounds exactly like a young mouse, and an older one when he's in a cheeky mood.   he wraps his fangs round what ever he can find that he's sure is banned and then looks directly at me....      ignoring is so hard but it is the only thing that has worked for getting him to stop doing such things constantly.   i had to wait for him to stop and go off to try something i wanted him to do then reward with the attention.  it is a wierd concept for us humans (unless perhaps we have had a very neglected childhood) but for cats, any attention no matter how mean and unpleasant will reinforce attention seeking behaviours.  it can make then nervous and skittish at the same time but still they will repeat the behaviour because they got a response.      if there is some less easily dislodged sticky material than regular stucky tape to try on that side table i think it is worth trying - anything in an attemt to break the cycle of behaviour there, and also the use of squirty bottle which can add anxiety and therefor unpredicatable behaviours.   (i used to have 2 cats who liked water and it had no effect at all on them other than getting a response from me).click to expand...  i tell others all the time that cats are just like toddlers, but i seem to forget that when thinking about my own cats.  lol...they are brats, for sure.  i try to ignore cissy whenever she starts gnawing on one of my cd cases, or plastic bags (anything plastic....and she likes wood, too)  and it does seem to shorten the time she does it, but i find evidence that she also gnaws when i am not home.  she went into my closet and somehow, was able to paw a cd out of a container (lol it was my "cats" one) and has gnawed almost to the cd part.  i did put them out of her reach.   out of all of the cats i have ever been owned by, cissy is the only one i have ever used a squirt bottle on.  she does love water, but she doesn't like it in her face.  the purrfect deterrent would be an empty can of air, that made noise. i had one for about a month, but it stopped making that spray noise.  the ones with canned air, are too dangerous to spray. if she is anywhere around when i use hairspray, she takes off, but i have yet to find an empty spray can that will make noise. btw, she often jumps in the shower as soon as i get out, and she loves to watch toilet water.   
 i have a question.  about a month ago, cissy was sleeping on her back, and her feet started vibrating.  if i touched her, she immediately stopped, but then her feet would start vibrating again.  this was before she started on the medication, or i would suspect that to be the cause.  i have not seen her do this again until earlier tonight. again, she was on her back.  i did research, but nothing seems to fit. if she had been doing this often, i would have asked the vet about it, but tonight was only the second time.  i can't seem to get any decent pictures of her without her eyes glowing, but this seems to have become one of her favorite sleeping positions.     
 could the tremmors you saw be like when a cat is dreaming and their front or back paws twitch or move?  or was it much faster than that?  
    
 you might be interested to know that there are natural + effective treatments for anxiety & aggression in pet cats.  this article is by a conventional -&- holistic veterinarian (karen becker, dvm) :  story at-a-glance in recent years there has been a disturbing increase in the use of anti-anxiety drugs in indoor cats antidepressants that affect serotonin levels in kitties are causing an uptick in a condition known as serotonin syndrome there are many very safe, non-toxic, and effective steps you can take to dramatically reduce the stress and anxiety of your cat.  "serotonin syndrome in cats can be fatal if not caught immediately"   http://healthypets.mercola.com/sites/healthypets/archive/2016/02/04/serotonin-syndrome-cats.aspx  it warns not to use both pharmaceuticals & natural supplements which both have an effect on the seratonin levels.  i often use tryptophan to help me sleep, but have also used it on my pets at specifically anxious times of their lives, and found it to be very effective!  "tryptophan, commonly known as nutricalm®, is primarily used to decrease aggression and stabilize mood for dogs and cats.  l-tryptophan is a large neutral amino acid that is an essential dietary constituent for dogs and cats. . . ."  http://www.petplace.com/article/drug-library/library/over-the-counter/tryptophan-nutricalm  http://www.nutravet.co.uk/nutracalm    
    
 so since the last post i made on thursday luna (my new 12 week old kitten) and noodles (my 5 year old resident cat) have what i believe gotten used to each others scent. i used the method of rubbing two clean socks on each cat and leaving a sock of the opposite cat near their food that way they have the scent while they eat (they both enjoy eating very much) as well as luna likes to snuggle with me a lot at night at bedtime so i know her scent is all over me when i as well pick up and hug noodles. i want to try visual desensitization but noodles is way too scared of luna to even come out from her hiding places. this most likely is happening because in the last few days i've let luna out from my room and she has chased noodles. it seemed to me that luna was trying to play with noodles, but noodles didn't want to and started to hit and hiss at luna. i've tried to contain luna as much as possible, but now she no longer wants to stay in my room. when i try to leave she wants to come with me and if i can close the door without her escaping she starts crying and that breaks my heart. i can't afford to buy a baby gate right now.. is there anyway i can help them keep their distance from each other so they can learn to tolerate each others presence without keeping luna locked up in my room and let noodles know that she can continue her everyday life and that she doesn't have to be scared?  
 that's what i was going to suggest. that way noodles can get a good amount of luna's scent without luna there. you can also get a sense of whether luna can safely be out in the rest of the home while noodles can have a chance to sleep with you.   
 so noodles finally came out but she feels the most comfortable in my brothers room. i don’t want to push her so tonight i’m going to feed noodles in my brothers room and luna on the opposite side of the door at the same time. i gave noodles a toy i bought for luna that she had played with a lot since we brought her home. that way she has a toy and she will smell luna without her being in the room. hopefully this goes well!! thank you all for the help. i appreciate it!!  
 i have a kitten that has started hissing at his toy whenever we are playing. i’ve never had a cat that did this so i was wondering if it was normal. he has heart disease so i worry that the hissing might be a sign of pain but he only does it when he’s playing.  
 na is just being vocal and telling his toys that he is boss. kittens make all kinds of noises when they play.  
 hi! have you tried cbd oil? hemp oil  it helps with inflammation, but in this case it can also help with easing anxiety. your boy might be lashing out so much due to pain, and if you can get him to be a little more chill, you do really need to get him in and in a state of mind that will allow the vet folks to handle him.  here are some calming products;calming treats for a very picky cat  and there are these: even prescription if nothing else, --gabapentin is good for travel, amitriptyline can help with general anxiety and ocd (such as excessive grooming)...   
 he is a little better but still acting very lazy. he is not hiding, but is definitely just seeming to want to chill. he will eat if i bring his dish to him, but he doesn't seem to want to go get food or water himself. unusual but i'm not as worried right now. my thought is he ate something weird when outside, or got stung by a bug and it's still bothering him. he's not growling and hissing as much at all. i'll keep you guys updated throughout the day.  
 he does sound as if he is in pain. i concur on the vet visit.  
 most vets can handle the crankiest of cats. one of mine ne d to be immediately covered with a towel and thenmhad a hood put on so she couldn’t see or bite. once that was done they could do whatever they needed to her.  
 i can't check him for wounds, as he gets violent when i touch anything other than his head and neck/scruff area. when he does get up and walk around a bit, he walks very slowly. i think his back legs or hind area are hurt somehow, but i don't see any visible wounds just from cursorily glancing at his extremities.  he's parked himself in the bathtub for now, which is common when it's at hot as it is. he's gotten up a few times throughout the day. one thing i'm not a fan of is that he hasn't used the litter box at all recently. i moved it into the bathtub to make it easier for him to access if he feels like he needs it.  
 it is possible he was hit by a car or had some other serious accident. get a large towel or blanket, wrap him in it and get him to the vet!  
 he has been in the tub nearly the entire day. he has eaten and drank some water when it has been given to him but still hasn't used the litter box, even though i moved it into the bathtub. he eventually moved back to the couch and has been there for hours.  eventually, i grabbed a towel to throw over him and to grab him to simulate bringing him to the vet, and he went insane. it sounded like he was in great pain. i tried bringing him to the litterbox to see if he would use it, but he just hissed at me and walked into the nearby bathroom. there, i noticed a little bit of blood on the floor where there wasn't any before. he's clearly wounded but i don't know where and i can't touch him without him freaking out. i would like to bring him to the vet tomorrow, but i don't know if they'll be able to handle him in this state. he will likely try to kill any vet tech who attempts to deal with him! uuuuuugh.  
 yes, having to sedate the cat can be expensive but it is possible me may die without treatment.  
 yep, i understand that. i'm just saying that the whole "don't worry about the vets" is not necessarily true. when i first called them back in march of this year to tell them he needed to be seen for his anxiety, they were all "oh we have vets who have seen it all, it'll be no problem." then they acted like he was a major problem.  hence why i may take him somewhere else over the next few days. i appreciate your help, though! i'm really worried about storm and am concerned that whatever happened to him will be incredibly expensive. i know about potential payment plans and all that, but it's a lot of stress out of nowhere. i hope you won't take my post(s) as aggressive... i'm just venting a bit. thanks!  
 hi all,  i have mostly been posting in the crossing the bridge board because i lost my cat of 18 years recently. but, last weekend i ended up adopting two cats who needed a home because their previous pet mom went into hospice unfortunately.  these cats are 6 years old. one who is a maine coon that we call spock. he is a male. and the other who is a pretty tortie who we call luna. she is a female.   spock seems as though he is used to getting about 90% of the attention. i think it's mostly because he needs to be brushed at least once a day. he sheds like crazy. i ended up buying a furminator because the hair tumble weeds are getting out of control. i notice that if i don't use it every day that i will find tufts of hair around the house still. have to get into a routine with him.  spock was a little scared the first night and hid behind the fridge but then came out and spent all night with me and my fiance. what a lap cat.  luna on the other hand seems to be an anxious kitty unfortunately. she hid under my couch for a few days. we barely saw her at first. i would try and lure her out with food which she would come to take a few bites and then go back to hiding.   after probably the third or fourth day, she started to stay out with me the majority of the time and now seeks me out for pets which is a delight. she however does not like being picked up. i have tried a few times and once she feels my hands around her she quickly runs away.   odd quirks i have noticed is that if i am giving luna attention, spock will come over and demand pets from me. he has even given be some light bites on ny hands when i am petting luna. i am not sure that is a good thing. but, i have started making sure that when i am brushing spock that i am petting luna as well interchangeably just so that they both start to learn that i don't prefer one over the other.  i also notice that spock tries to eat all the food while luna doesn't eat too much. again, i try to get them to come and eat at the same time but luna seems to lose interest quickly. i do find it funny when she does eat because she will try to cover her food afterward. i have heard of this behavior in cats but have never seen it before until now. find it so funny.  and lastly, i think spock has separation anxiety. if i go to the bathroom he will paw at the door and yowl until i come out. i also am not allowing them in my bedroom so when i go to bed he paws and yowls for a while. i have put a baby gate in front of my door at night so he won't paw at the door directly. he was previously declawed so he doesn't cause damage.  i am not exactly sure what to do with luna not eating as much. i feel like she may be losing some weight. and the whole spock giving some nibbles for attention and yowling, i feel like are behaviors i need to correct but not sure how exactly.  my previous cat was such a sweetheart. i think i am used to her ways so it might take me time to get used to these new kitties.   any advice is much appreciated!  
 i'm so sorry that you lost your beloved cat recently. thank you for adopting spock and luna. they are lucky to have you looking after them!  can you feed luna while you're brushing spock so that he's occupied and won't steal her food?  my beloved kitty gwen, who died last year, also demanded to be let into the bathroom when i was in there. she liked the attention, and i just caved and let her in, so i don't have any good advice on how to discourage that behavior! i think a lot of members on this board have cats who enjoy bathroom time with their humans. maybe spock's previous owner also allowed it? cats generally hate closed doors, especially if they're used to having full access to their space. so it's probably not 'separation anxiety' so much as him needing to get used to new boundaries.  if you have some pictures of your new kitties, please share, both here and on the photo forums.  
 yeah, i actually used to let my previous kitty use the bathroom with me. she was funny and would use the box at the same time as me. it was right next to the toilet haha.   i guess with these new kitties i'm still getting used to them so i feel weird using the bathroom in front of them hahah... silly i know.   i am taking them both to the vet tomorrow for the first time so i'll see if they have any suggestions for food too.   as for kitty pics... here are a few.      this pic is interesting to me. behind them is my old cat's ashes in the urn i got from the crematorium. spock especially loves hanging out by them on the coffee table.   
 hi! is there any way you can put them in a smaller room? maybe this? another post spay question please  
 i did they went crazy meowing scratching and jumping  
 can you separate them? that might make a difference.  
 i wouldn't worry too much. confine them as much as you can but they are kittens and will recover quickly. it is also ok if they lick at the would a little, as long as they aren't biting out the stitches. just watch the incision for swelling or oozing.  
 i also wouldn't put vanilla.on them as it's not their scent...and i agree with furballs.mom...he most likely picked up all kinds of scents being at groomers and both animals are not used to that...give it some time i'm sure they will be back to themselves shortly ☺  
 hello and welcome to tcs. sorry you, and andy, are dealing with the non-recognition issue since his grooming. hopefully separating them, and doing re-introductions will help.  here's another article which might have some tips: how to fix an unsuccessful cat introduction  good luck.  
 i think this was implied by the posters above, but i'll state it directly: it isn't the haircut, it is the strange smells. a lot of cats experience this after coming back from the vet or the groomer. i imagine a groomer without best practices could make it worse by using stuff that smells like other animals, but it seems to sometimes happen regardless because even the most cleanly groomer is never going to get rid of all the animal scents in the air. one thing you could recommend to your clients is that they have a blanket with the animals scent ready; then when home after the session before seeing the other pets they can rub it on their pet to overpower the new smells with the familiar.  
 hi @terischlem welcome to tcs   whilst i agree with the other posters that the primary issue here is scent-based non-recognition, its possible that the drastically different sillhoute has exacerbated matters. how do cats recognize us? – way of cats blog  at this point, though, your best option is to start a gradual reintroduction. with a bit of luck, though, it may be a shorter process than an introduction between two strangers. i remember a thread about a similar issue from a while ago, and things progressed fairly smoothly once the cats had both been in their home for a few days. nightmare after cat grooming  basically, stay calm, hang in there, and trust that with time and patience order will be restored  how to deal with non-recognition aggression in cats  
 daphne would spend a couple days hissing at elmo every time he came home from the vet, and he didn't even have a bath. somehow, spending 20 minutes in the clinic changed his scent. things should improve soon.  
 they do but the cats could choose from the sofa, recliner, our bed, the glider with fleece throw, or either of the smaller cushy pet beds (one of which is brand new). becca has only this nice bed and louie claims it? hmmph!  
 if the fleece doesn’t work, just buy a second doggy bed. she can only sleep on one at a time.  
 so true!  
 no expierence. but i'm very curious if it works so let us know how it goes!  
 thank you!   day 3: she covered her #2 for the 1st time maybe ever!? she is urinating more frequently, and i'm not sure if that means she more comfortable urinating in there so doesn't hold it, or if she has just figured out that i let her out whenever she urinates so i can clean the crate. re-reading the cat whisperer and starting to figure out what changes we need to make to our environment. maybe the dogs are stressing her out more than i thought. tiny enjoys sleeping with and playing with the dogs, but maybe feels stress over having to jump on the counter to eat or being vulnerable while going to the bathroom. we've tried dog free litter box areas before though, and they haven't worked. maybe after this re-training they will. i still can't picture this working but am hopeful. it's absolutely amazing to see used litter though!  
 that's exciting! can't wait to hear if she takes to it. find the softest, most appealing, best amazing litter you can find!! haha, jk. fingers crossed!   
 good luck! i'm also following and hoping it all works out!  
 so glad to hear that she's making progress!  
 i just started crate training my older cat, miss cleo, last night. she's been tried and convicted of "public urination" and it's been deemed that she must go into detention (confinement).....she has been avoiding the litter box for a very long time. i've done all the suggestions, such as get another box, change the litter, have multiple boxes, see if she has a surface issue. nothing has worked so, i'm at the point where i'll try anything. since i live in a small apartment, i purchased a cage to do the crate training in. it's a large cage  day one definitely has to be the hardest. luckily, i work from home. she's gotten time out in the yard (ie the bathroom) many times today for the suggested 20 minutes. the hardest for me is the crying. it's so heart breaking. you can hear me throughout the day, calling over to her and talking to her. basically telling her i love her and all will be okay. personally, since she'll poop in the box but not pee regularly, i forwent the full bottom tray of litter and started with her small litter box in the cage. she hasn't peed outside the box all day so, i'm pretty proud of her. i'm hoping she can be on the fast track too! i want my baby out of confinement and sleeping with me. i wish you luck; we both need it!  
 @sunny578 not sure if you'll see this, but would love an update on tiny. is she still regularly using her litter box?  
 hello! i just wanted to post an update in case anyone out there has an extremely litter box averse cat. i did so much research and tried so many things and found very little information on crate training cats. but this is what ultimately worked--crate training, and making sure she uses her box twice a day. i clean it at morning and at night, and if there is nothing to clean, i track tiny down, put her in her crate with some food, and wait until she uses her box before i let her out again. i think she forgets to use it once and a while, and if the urine builds up it turns into a more stressful and uncomfortable situation for her, resulting in an accident. i never would have guessed that this would be the way we got tiny back in the box, but i am so grateful i finally found something that worked for her, and clean that box twice daily with gratitude!  
 t hank you! that's a great idea re: carpet cleaning with litter!! tiny now has her own bedroom, and that has been helping too. thank you!   
 well, for the past three months, we've hit this new level of weirdness. tiny won't take the initiative to go to the litter box by herself, but will go in the litter box if i put her in there. so 2-3 times a day, i put her in the crate where her litter box is, point to the litter box and say "go to the bathroom," and then she goes. if i don't do this, she will anywhere but the litter box.   it's a bit exhausting to try and remember to put her in the box, but whatever, it's fine. i'm so curious though about what is going on in her brain. i guess it's possible that she doesn't like the noise of stepping in the litter box--like maybe making a noise makes her feel vulnerable, and maybe she feels safe enough to go in there when i am there? i am happy to put a litter box in a more discreet location, but in the past she has never used those boxes. i guess i could give it another try.  
 i assume you've tried cat attract litter, but thought i'd throw it out there just in case.  btw, we no longer use a box for hk (who's almost 20, btw) - we use an extra large kennel tray that we cover with litter. we put a big piece of vinyl sheet flooring under it, and it protrudes several inches on 3 sides. seems like hk likes his tray better than the box, because he's mostly been using it. maybe the tray could work for a cat who doesn't like the box?  
  i just read through this whole thread with intrigue. our previous cat, fletcher (he was awesome), decided to stop pooping in his box one day....and he never looked back. i tried literally everything i could think of....at one point half of our whole basement was covered in tinfoil (which worked)....but then eventually he started using the other side of the basement. i wish i’d stumbled across or been recommended the crate idea....maybe that would have helped him. it’s like a switch flipped one day and he just stopped using it.  i wish so much i had advice for you. litterbox issues are so frustrating. you’re doing an amazing job with tiny.  
 no? we have a one year old human child so she is constantly changing (all of these litter box issues started way before she was conceived though) so that's always an option, but tiny seems to enjoy her company and chooses to sleep with her and in her room. tiny has been increasingly interested in a neighbor cat that comes by and sometimes sneaks inside, but he's been around for a while too. maybe though since it's been warm out for the past few months he's been around more? maybe i'll try some new litter and some new techniques for making her room feel calm. i was afraid to move the crate when she was doing so well, but maybe i should experiment with putting it in the closet so it's in a more discreet location. thank you for the question! it got me thinking. . .   
 constipation: real help for your cat  thank you! i found this, and am wondering if tiny is actually constipated. she hasn't been using the box much, but hasn't been having any accidents either, unless you count yesterday afternoon when i could tell she had to go so i picked her up to put her in the box but then she urinated partially on me. i'm not sure if at this point me putting her in the box is causing her anxiety and we are on kind of a circular loop. her food brand went out of business so we have been jumping around trying to find a new acceptable brand of raw food, which i'm sure is stressing her out. it's possible that she's going to the bathroom outside when we let her out in the early am or evening (when it's still dark) but that's never been a regular thing for her in the past. she just goes through phases where something seems a little off, like she's mildly depressed. i don't know--i don't think there are answers right now. i just don't get why we had 6 amazing months of her using her box and now we are here. it actually all changed around july 4th this time, and july 4th was horrible here. my 90lb epileptic dog was pacing the halls at 1am urinating everywhere himself. if our honeymoon trip was enough to spark 14 months of no litter box usage for tiny, then i guess that pseudo war zone night could be enough to get us to this workable yet stressful place. i've got a bunch of sensitive creatures over here!  thanks for listening!  
 my cat is getting better and not in pain. okay, cool. but she is still panicing as soon as she gets hungry. i've been feeding her at 6pm since i've had her, and every night she will start meowing at 4pm. she won't stop no matter what i do. she gets anxious like she believes she is starving. i've never refused to feed her in her life and she knows better. anyway, she will meow for hours until i feed her. it's uncalled for and ignoring her only makes it worse. her bladder crystals are almost gone and none of this meowing has changed, so i don't think the crystals caused it. i don't have money to devoice her, so is there anything else i can do?   yes, she has toys and we play. i spend time with her during the day. most of the time she will start meowing as soon as i go in my room to do school work. she always starts 2 hours before dinner without fail. this is what's driving me and my neighbirs crazy. there's no reason for this to be happening. unless she secretly hates me. i guess that's possible. since i found out about the crystals i've been giving her a snack so i can give her medicine. i've also been giving her more food for dinner when i feed her. i've also tried using a puzzle dish, but all that does is slow her eating. it doesn't do anything in the hour and half to two hours before i feed her. none of this has made any kind of difference. so no, there is absolutely no reason for her to meow so loud for so long.  
 mine do the same thing. i have to feed them twice a day or they start hollering. i just give them 2 smaller meals. they do have dry food out at all times but they only nibble at it here and there. usually just if i have to work late.  
 it sounds like she is getting hungry before her dinner. that's not a scheduling issue on her end, it's a comfort issue, and i think you should try to address it. what time do you feed breakfast? i would also check the food you are feeding. are the first ingredients listed meat, or fillers? if it's not meat, she may not be getting full enough.   has she been dewormed recently? is she spayed?   can you leave her a bit of dry food for snacking on? i know it's not ideal with the crystals, but if she is drinking water and eating mostly wet food, i imagine it would be ok.  i know you are feeling desperate, but i really hope you are not truly considering devoicing. that's cruel, and may help with your immediate feeling of frustration, but will only hurt your cat's quality of life and ability to express her needs.  
 12 hours is a long time to go without food, especially if she is having a light breakfast. your cat is hungry. it seems to me that you need to figure out a solution to feed her mid-day. maybe an automatic feeder?  
 so you have some options. buy a bag of dry food for urine crystals to leave out a little for the day. this is the only time you should use it and not just fill a bowl and let her graze. (this can make her fat, sick and diabetic). or you can shorten the time in between meals. 12 hours is too long. those should be fairly simple things to try.  also devoicing your cat is never an ok option.  
 i still don't want to leave dry food out. crystals can be bad and i can't afford surgery. i think i'll try the freezy option tomorrow. 1 can for breakfast, 1/2 for her snack, and 1 1/2 for dinner. give me a few days. hopefully it will work. i guess i won't have to clean the puzzle dish again for a while. wet food doesn't really work with them anyway.  
 new to the forum. as they say on radio, "long time listener. first time caller."  anyway, background.. i have five kitties. they are all *gulp* seniors now. i took a calico mama in with her four 8 week old kittens (one girl) 10 years ago. she was approx 6 at the time. we've been in my current home 9 years and i just went through removing carpets, cleaning and replacing with luxury vinyl plank flooring. to prepare, the carpets and baseboards were removed a few weeks ago so we could clean the slab. it's a concrete slab in about 80% of the house. but an addition was added before my time and that is plywood. you see, one of my cats has peed on nearly every surface. it's an ongoing thing. sometimes its pee and sometimes its wall spraying.   anyway, in a few areas behind the baseboards was some mold. my first thought was he got the wall so wet, it created mold. but i began to wonder because, yes it was areas where he peed, but they were also exterior walls. so i began to wonder if it was actually non cat related and there was water behind the walls. ultimately i was told to treat them and i also used mold killing primer.  but the area are also where on the exterior side of the wall are soil garden patches. i dont have anything planted but they are there. and it's possible water is coming in.  now i finally get to the reason i am here... i just read that mold can smell like cat urine. never knew that. i've always known the musty, mildew smell but didnt know about cat pee. so i'm wondering, if mold can smell like cat pee to humans, does it smell that way to cats and can it be the cause of my cat spraying in those areas? i tried googling that but couldn't find the two together.  thanks for listening (reading).  
 hi! i'm not sure, mostly i've only ever read about mold causing breathing problems for cats.  i wonder, however, if there were cats outside using those soil patches for "potty purposes" --your cat would have detected that and would have sprayed in order to try and prove territorial ownership.  
 my kitten who is almost 3 months old pooped while asleep. he was meowing while doing this it was soft and normal looking for him it was a full size poop. should i be worried?  
 hm. definitely tell his vet. i do not want to sound like a debbie downer, but it may be something serious. if he was just a couple of weeks old, it might be different, but at three months this ought not to be happening unless there is some sort of issue. good luck and keep us posted. i hope the little guy is okay!  
 question: is there such a thing as watching too much "my cat from hell"?  
 he may very well be smelling them more in the kitchen. so long as he is eating somewhere, you're ok!  
 hi! let him learn his lesson  if however the delivery of that lesson gets too rough where fur is being pulled out or there's actual blood, definitely intervene.  (sometimes having a big piece of cardboard handy can help to separate them so that you don't get caught in the middle of it.)  
 most serious cat fights are somewhat quiet, or almost completely without noise, so a lot of hissing and screaming is more posturing/social stuff than it is real serious unless someone doesn't get the "hint". a fight can break out for sure, so let him learn but just be cautious. if the fighter cat seems very stressed by this new cat in her home, separate when you can't watch them. if she's annoyed but goes about her business and gives him a good talking to, that's fine imo. but at 6 months, i'm assuming being young, in a new environment with a resident queen who lays down the law, the hissing and sitting under a chair is the equal to some guy in a bar, staring at the biggest guy there and yelling "hold me back!" while grabbing someones arm and physically using their arm to "pretend" that person is holding them back. they want to look tough, but aren't, and the minute someone really lays down the law, they go belly up and beg for mercy. ....i don't know this from experience or anything.   
 hi there! introducing cats can take some time and patience, as cats are territorial by nature. the good news is, that introducing cats to kittens is usually easier than introducing two adult cats. this article has a lot of great tips: how to fix an unsuccessful cat introduction  
 hang in there, cats are very territorial and it just may take time.  
 hissing and swatting is one thing, but what do they do other times? does it start the second they see each other and not stop until you separate them? then it is an issue. if they hiss and swat here and there, but also eat and sleep near each other with no problem, and sometimes pass each other in the room and not care too much, then no worries, it is all totally normal and fine. cats talk, they are vocal, they let the other cat know they are the tough one. they need to do this and work it out. if this really bothers you you can try feliway or calming collars.   it becomes an issue if you have inappropriate urinating, one cat hiding all day long in fright and not eating, things like that. that is when it gets serious.  
 hissing is actually okay, as in "don't come too close too quickly, respect my space." there are much worse reactions. swatting (without claws) is often an older mammal's way of "training" a younger one to respect boundaries. if most of the time the boundaries are kept and there is no initiation of aggression, your two ladies are fine, and will be finer when the little one gains some size. they may not be love-birds ever, but they will accommodate. our four year old neutered male had injured the small young newcomer female, and i kept them separate when i was on onboard to watch. it's gotten much better, *five months* (phew!) later. i predict it won't take that long for yours.  
 hi! first, hang in there, you're doing great in a challenging situation! i'd separate them and deal with the pee issues first.  there's an enzymatic cleaner called the equalizer, it doesn't require soaking.  can you try a litter called cat attract? some people dust about a cup or so of it on top of other litter or i think there's a litter additive as well.  can you also try music, it's known to help cats relax. try low volume classical harp music, there's an app called relax my cat, and there's musicforcats.com  cat trees: 12 designs that will make you go "wow!"  how to make your home bigger (at least for your cats)  16 experts reveal the most common litterbox mistakes (and how to avoid them)  how to fix an unsuccessful cat introduction  you, your cat and stress  how to successfully introduce cats: the ultimate guide  the 10 most common litterbox mistakes cat owners make  playing with your cat: 10 things you need to know  food puzzles for cats  20 best interactive cat toys: the ultimate list (2018) | heavy.com  home the ripple rug  
 i think yes, let those little tiffs go. i think that's necessary for them to figure out what's what, --under supervision. coffee should be fine once everything is squared away, but of course watch to see that she doesn't exhibit signs of stress as you go along.  
 hmm okay, i will try all this. i will see if letting them work it out themselves (within reason) will help this process along! i'm really hoping that if i solve one problem, i solve them both...  
 pre-fight   
 of course keep an eye on things, they're cats lol  
 i try to limit treat-time to when they are together to create positive associations (although i must admit, every once in a while i cave and give them one or two treats while apart - it's hard not to when they're so cute!). as for the feeding, they both have their own dry food stations they are allowed access to at all hours of the day. when it comes to wet food, they each get a portion of it at night time and i have fed them together successfully. maui, while very food motivated, eats hers all in one go, with no problem. coffee, on the other hand, doesn't care too much about her food, and tends to eat it at a leisurely pace throughout the evening... so when maui is in the room, she spends most of her time watching her eat (but she has managed to relax and take a couple bites too without issue). coffee loves - and i mean loves - being brushed. so i try to brush her whenever maui is in the room, and this does seem to calm her down and make her happier when maui is around.  
 so, took maui back to the vet, just to re-confirm whether there was actually any bladder issues... nope, she's just a brat. but i knew that already. she's still peeing on things, and now she's started doing it on the landing of the staircase - of course, right in between hers and coffee's bedrooms. so i definitely think it's somewhat territorial, somewhat separation anxiety (i find that she does it more often if less people are home during the day or she's getting less attention like when i'm in the other room with coffee behind a closed door). unfortunately, i think maui now thinks that all of the rest of the house is all hers (even though coffee gets it in the morning and some evenings)...  as per the vet's advice, i've been trying to give them more time together. up in coffee's/our room, maui tends to be on better behaviour (i think she knows that if she's rude, she gets kicked out). but tonight, coffee was downstairs, and as soon as maui saw her, she instantly charged at her and they got into a big fight  no one is hurt, but it was definitely hard to see. i don't think there was much in the way of claws, if anything, it was mostly just a lot of noise, but there was fur flying which is always scary.  
 i want to try setting up a barrier, so they can actually see each other throughout the day, but not be able to get to each other. unfortunately, our house has sort of a weird layout... our bedroom (coffee's room) is upstairs on one side of the house, with a sideways hallway to another room and a balcony to look over the rest of the house. staircase to landing, landing splits off - one side goes downstairs, the other side goes back up to the other side of the house, to maui's side. i would love to split it off at the landing, so that coffee's territory expands a little more (bedroom + hallway + balcony; she loves to observe downstairs from there), but i'm not sure how to do that. i'll post pics and if anyone has some ideas maybe they could send them my way!  
 he sounds perfectly normal to me   this site is loaded with articles to assist you over any hurdles.   kittens need to feel secure. i suggest setting up litter box/food in washroom or spare bedroom or quarantine if you can in kitchen food/litter etc. as mentioned then let him explore at his own pace. don't offer run of the house yet. everything takes time, time to settle in etc. needs to get used to smells and your schedule...leave music tv on when away, play allot 1/2 before you leave feed just before you leave more likely just sleep most of the time. if at all possible can you retrieve any toys or blankets with mom smells on it for security? i took a kitten to work for weeks in a handbag designed for a small dog he became the most popular kitten in town restaurants too is that an option until he's a little older?  
 delete please   
 i know it's scent marking and all, but it's a kind of cute habit that i'm curious about because i figured she'd stop doing that after a while since i got her back in march. however, she mostly does this around me, but i've noticed whether she's laying next to the tower of tracks ball toy, she'll rub her chin on it or she'll rub her face on the walls, the door, the chair legs and just about anything. if i'm somewhere and she comes up to me, mewing for attention and i don't pet her right away, she rubs her face and chin on nearby objects (like the bathroom medicine cabinet mirror)  someone told me it at first it her way of letting the other cat, prince, know she's here-but it has been many months now and prince is astutely aware of her presence. which also leads me onto another topic, while she rubs her face against everything from objects to my wrist and legs, prince has never done it. or he has, but it's extremely rare and a bit on the subtle side. i've seen when i come home or wake up in the morning, prince will walk towards me "fall" against my leg and walk past. there was one very rare moment where he rubbed his cheek against the bathroom door, but that was the only time. (i think i've said before, prince doesn't appear to be a "normal" cat by any standards while nikita seems to be more "normal")   
 the chewing is sort of a stress or emotion reliever kind of thing and she likes the feel of it.  
 my dining room,bedroom,and bathroom belong to peaches. the only places she rubs. maggie gets the living room.  
 those kitties really like and trust you. gentle biting or "love bites" are a sign of affection.  
 my girl paws at me. if i stop petting her or don't see her she reaches out and paw touches me. very gently. if i still don't notice, usually if it's on my jeans, she'll try again with a little more pressure and claw tips. definitely not try to hurt me or stretch but get my attention to pet her.  
 cats often scratch humans without meaning to - or at least, while they're feeling friendly. and kittens often scratch where experienced cats don't. there was no hissing or hostile noises, and it sounded like there was no hostile activity. had they been upset, they'd have left.  
 i let my stray eat of my hand on the first day. she was so hungry she drew blood.   i cats are mad there is usually a noise, hiss, growl, scream, etc...  
 oops meant to say may try 6:30 or so for a morning walk. that way it doesn’t defeat getting up before i need. otherwise will try late in day. thanks again!  
 welp. i wanted reese to scratch her cat tree instead of the furniture. every time i saw her scratching the carpet or the couch i'd pick her up and put her on the tree, then grab a toy and lure her up the posts so she could 'feel' the sisal rope. there were a few times that she'd scratch it, then i'd pop a treat into her mouth and tell her she was a good girl! this went on for several days consistently. i guess she started building a connection with the scratching and playing.  now the little snot runs and scratches on the side of the chair when she wants my attention! she'll even stop mid scratch to peek around the couch and see if i'm watching. when i get up she runs to her tree or her toys excitedly, ready to play our game. oops.  
 oh no don't worry about it, i can't stop laughing about it either! she's a very smart girl. a naughty little thing, but i'm still impressed that she built a connection. i'll follow the link and see what i can do! i used double sided sticky tape on a kitten once before and it worked...but to be fair he wasn't nearly as smart as reese and it only took a few tries.   
 hello everyone, i am looking to adopt a 1 year old cat, i already have a 6 year old cat. i also live in an apartment with 2 stories, i was wondering what the best way to introduce the new cat would be?   thanks!!  
 yes, i have heard tales of cats who stay right by when their "people" are feeling sick. we saw it a bit ourselves one night when my husband was suffering with a kidney stone....zoe stayed right by him. i would've thought she would be scared, but she wasn't at all...she was there to help him throught it! your cats are taking great care of you but i hope you don't suffer from too many bad days!  
 my daughter's cat (the one in my sig) has been curling up with me alot more since i have been sick, and he lays on my back to keep me warm.  
 here is another article on the measured healing effects of the purr:  http://www.animalvoice.com/catpurrp.htm  cool stuff.  
 my kitten is a rescue kitten ive had him since he was five weeks i have a chronic back disorder he knows when im unwell his five months old now and sits  close to me when im unwell he seems to sense it he puts his paw gently on me to check on me his now five months old and incredibly loyal  
 i recently started suffering from really bad migrains and am now on bed rest. every since the pain started my two cats have not left my side, where ever i go the both promply follow me and when i lay down the older one lays on my chest with one paw on my cheek or chin while the other lays spooning my head while purring. i don't care what anyone says they know when something is wrong and try to heal you with their cute kitty ways  
 we just got our two kittens about a week ago, they're about 4 months. they had been abandoned and brought to a animal hospital, where they stayed in a tiny room as big as our bathroom. when we took them to our place, they were very excited.  i'm a young teen with a ten-year-old sister, and i stayed home from school today with the flu. after i threw up, the two kittens were very worried. i decided to go to sleep, and just as i laid my head on my pillow, a paw shot out from under my door. i opened it, and two worried little kitties staring up at me. i put them on my bed, and the two immediately snuggled up with me. this was at 11am. my dad came to check on me at 1pm and the kitties were cuddling with me, but were watching me. they stayed with me until 2! that means they were with me for about three hours. i think they just know when something is wrong, no matter what age they are. and while they may seem independent and even cold at times, they really do worry and care about their owner.  
 it helps that i have more than one cat, and the other one is her complete opposite. my boy is so needy and social that i actually appreciate the girl being more independent. i got her as a companion for my boy to give me a break from him, and she does that "job" amazingly well.    erickste86 said: ↑  there really doesn't need to be a dominance war at this time. i mean, i want her to understand when she can't do what she wants like claw my couch, but i don't want to be the monster either!click to expand...  i don't think there's ever any reason to have a dominance war with a cat. they're so tiny and naturally fearful that if you try to control or dominate them using punishment or brass behaviour it's likely to have the opposite effect of what you want. it's really important to me to have confident pets that live their lives well rather than ones that only feel safe to live out their lives under a bed. in spite of running from me, i'm happy that my girl does move confidently around my house with her tail up in the air, and she is mellowing out with age.  for the couch i'd suggest getting a cover to protect it just in case, and make sure that you have a scratching post in the room near the couch. one thing i figured out from watching my cats is that scratching something is not only a territorial marking behaviour, it is also sometimes a non-aggressive calming social behaviour that you want to encourage (a relaxed "stretch" as well as a grooming "scratch" - dog trainers call this a "calming move"). my cats will walk into a room and scratch their post to say "hey lady, i'm just here to chill." it seems to relax them and signal to me and the other cat in the room that all is well in the world.   
 was she allowed outside at your previous residence? i mean, she probably was or how would she have gotten pregnant? and i assume she's being kept indoors at your in-law's? if a female cat is mated quickly enough, you may not notice she's in heat, because they mostly only howl when they're getting desperate. so that may explain why she's howling for them and not you.   at any rate, she really ought to be spayed as soon as possible. if your in-laws want a break from her meowing and/or don't want to care for a post-surgery kitty, she can be boarded at the vet for a week or so after surgery so the vet techs can deal with all of that. and when she comes home hopefully she won't feel like howling anymore .  
 from what i understand of ocicat personality, they are very similar to siamese. one thing to note is that cat breed and personality links are not as hard set as those of dog breeds. that said, siamese personality predictors are fairly reliable because they are an older breed. i'd say go with whichever you like the appearance of the most since they are so similar in predictive personality areas.   which means with both you need similar advice. while i don't have purebred i do have a snowshoe lookalike who conforms to many of the siamese type traits (snowshoe being a siamese derived breed). so my advice:   if your dog is easily stressed it might not be the best match. siamese and ocicats are smart and energetic. they don't do well alone and will likely latch onto your dog for companionship while you are gone. spend at least an hour before and after work dedicated to play. i had to do this with my boy and it meant waking up earlier each day. but it also meant he was tired out and would be sleeping most of the time i was gone.  routine is vital. smart cats equal trouble when they are trying to get attention. setting a routine let's them know when things are happening so they are less likely to cause problems. for example, i always end play session with a treat or food. this tells my guy that play time is over and he doesn't keep trying to play. as a kitten that down time was usually less than an hour during the day but he'd go off, nap or play alone then come back for more.  firm boundaries. smart cats will constantly test boundaries. their entire lives will be filled with them seeing how much they can get away with. you have to firmly and constantly enforce boundaries. one i do for my own sanity is no play once i lay down. so we play, feed and i get ready for bed at night l. the second i am under blankets my guy knows that there will be no playing. as a kitten he tried and i ignored him. as an adult he usually lays down and sleeps but every now and then he tries. he will drop toys on my face or meow. i will pet him for a minute, lay him down, then stop responding.    
 thank you for the input and advice! i really appreciate it. my dog is usually chill at home and just sleeps all day, but when he gets excited, he gets a bit rowdy. he was fine with the cat i had before, but she was never that sure about him because he liked to sniff her butt and she didn't appreciate that much lol i'll be sure to keep your advice in mind and set good boundaries, routines, and play time for when i do get him/her.   
 all good, it was very short lived. so far, he is happy to eat any wet food i put down for him. i’ve been feeding him the few i have that kaia won’t eat!  
 henry and jenny sound like they are having a wonderful time play. yes, it can be rough and noisy but if they go back for more they are just having fun. i would not separate them no matter how much yelling and complaining you hear.  as far as henry’s purring, or lack of it. it just may be that he is so wound up or distracted by his new playmate that he just can settle down enough to purr when she is around. that doesn’t mean he isn’t happy or that you need to be concerned. i think you have made a great move getting him a companion and best friend.  
 thank you! i'm glad you think they are a good match. i think i need to remind myself that he isn't unhappy just because he isn't purring.   also i forgot to put in my original post that his play aggression towards me has completely stopped. he definitely needed a better outlet for that energy.   
 so we adopted a cat that has cerebellar hypoplasia (buddy) . it isn't a bad case hes not a great jumper but he manages just fine. buddy has been in our home for 3 years. 2 months back we decided to adopt a new healthy kitten (bernard). the process to get them together took about a month. the kitten is fine and my old cat for the most part is ok. buddy has been way more vocal now that bernard has entered the home with growling and hissing. i have never witnessed buddy go after bernard not even once. buddy kind of keeps to himself. my problem is that the new cat won't leave him alone and buddy is constantly on the defense. he hisses and swats at my wife and daugter (ocasionaly). he won't let us pick him up or cut his nails anymore. i dont know how to make him feel safe. we have tried cat pheromones to calm him but nothing seems to be working. please help.  
 normal - it is going to take a few days for her to adjust back to the house and to you. give her her space and let her come to you on her own time... it will happen.  
 just add food. most cats are easy to win over if you feed them.  go about your usual routine and a few meals from now she should be ok.  
 this is normal cat behavior. my cats did this to me when i got home after being away for less than 48 hours over labor day weekend. just let her work things out in her own time frame. i swear this is a cat's way of complaining about being left home alone. she will come around once she realizes you are not going out of town again. have you unpacked yet? my cats sometimes seem to calm down when i start unpacking.  
 oh sweetie, your baby still loves you!! when my mom was so sick i had to be out of town a lot to care for her--weeks at a time!! i had a friend come twice a day to feed and play with them but when i would get home they would give me the cold shoulder for days!! they got over it. just act like everything is normal and get them back to their routine.  
 my cat has hyperestentia, and chases his tail and his skin twitches. he has always done it, but it exacerbated when we moved and i found two new kittens and brought them home. he is on an anti anxiety medication which he has to take once a day. we tried to take him off it after some months, because sometimes i guess the cat gets better on its own, but my cat got worse again, and so we are keeping him on it. it was caused by stress. he bit his tail so bad that he had to have it wrapped for awhile which was a nightmare. hope that your kitty feels better.  
 do you have space under your sink where you can put the can behind doors? a lot of people do that.  alternatively may you could try spraying the can with one of the scent products that supposedly repel cats. or double sided tape -- cats supposedly don't like that. no idea if these ideas will work, but may be worth a try. even if it does work, the double sided tape would probably get pretty gross, but you could stop it once he is trained. hopefully.  @lts3 had a really good idea too. this is a common problem for dogs -- i even have a fb friend that is always posting about this. so you could do some internet searching for dog & trash or trashcan and get additional ideas. its a common problem for kittens as well, but as far as getting into big sturdy cans i think that is normally a dog thing.  
 true our semi-feral stuffs himself until he vomit s(in the food bowl sometimes.) what worked? mutiple full bowels and letting him in more often (because if his silliness gets locked out for 4-6 hours then he panicks and gorges himself.) it was why i mentioned puzzle feeders, that or a constant bowl of dry food that is always there.  
 i have the same problem with my cats. they get into the broom closet and tip over the trash can. spraying the can occasionally with plain old chlorinated kitchen cleaner (clorox or similar brand) seems to make it unappealing to them.  
 i had this problem with my cats. in the end, i locked the trash can in a cupboard to keep it out of their way.  
 she is use to the four of us (me, my parents, and sibling) who have lived with her and been around her since she was a kitten, but she seems to despise everyone else, and i realize this could be an issue up ahead as circumstances can change. (like what if i get married? what if there is someone new in our lives long term? what if at some point i move out and get roommates?)  we don’t have a lot of guests come over either, we’re often the ones going over to theirs. but on the occasion they drop by for even a minute she will growl and act very nervous, which is out of character for her at home.  i think it’s becauae the only people she’s ever really was in contact with other than family are the vets. and she hates the vets. she will go feral when placed on the vets table (because she remembers the pain of her spay surgery and thinks she’ll be hurt again) and often need to be sedated for checkups. she also seems to hate other cats (she hisses at the cats at the vets if they get too close to her crate).  and she seemed to associate anyone who isn’t family as vets or as people who aren’t to be trusted.   it doesn’t help that i’m kind of more or less not very social either. so it’s not like i have a lot of people i can help her get use to. she is too much like me.  idk. do cats adjust well to new people? what can i do to make sure she’s more flexible? she’s only like a year old so i feel like if i want her to get more exposure in terms of trust maybe it should be done while she is young (although it probably would’ve helped had that been the case for her as a kitten too).  
 hello and welcome to tcs. sorry about your cat's litter box avoidance issues.   a vet visit is always the first recommendation, just to rule out medical reasons such as utis. if he shows any signs of pain or discomfort, please do find a way to get him to a vet, because utis can become very serious, especially in males.  is he neutered? is the female kitten spayed?  here's some tcs articles with more info:  no money for vet care? how to find help and save your cat's life  how to solve litterbox problems in cats: the ultimate guide litterbox problems? here's why you should call your vet inappropriate peeing, spraying, toy obsession and leg and hand nipping spraying: when your cat uses urine to mark territory  how to get cat pee smell out of clothes and linens  
 both of your cats need to be spayed and neutered, asap! his sister is far past mature and could get pregnant at any time.  where are you located? we can help you to find a low cost clinic.  
 dark urine? time for a trip to the vet!  
 as noted, you can't just assume its a uti and use over the counter treatments. it could be kidney disease and/or other things. untreated kidney problems = your cat is dying slowly while you watch. you wouldn't necessarily see the other signs yourself.  so...if you can't take the cat to the vet, the only responsible thing is to try and give the cat away to a person or organization that can get vet care. this is possible. my brother found an organization willing to take a diabetic cat, for example.  i hesitate to mention this, because its quite likely a health issue and possibly quite serious given the dark urine. however, if you are leaving clothes on the floor, the bed or even leaving the laundry basket accessible, its not so shocking the cat is peeing on them. loose clothes can be kneeded with the paws to simulate burying waste. i hate to sound like mom, but if you have a cat, clothes need to be put away and not accessible or this can happen. i'm not judging -- i used to like leaving clothes on the floor at times; a prior cat forced me to stop.  
 here's a tcs article that might be helpful: no money for vet care? how to find help and save your cat's life  
 a second update.  she called me at noon, and told me she got him back in at 5 this morning. she left her back door open all night and stayed up so she could close the door once he came in. she said he seems happy to be home. case closed.  
 i have two cats and it's the calico in my picture that loves the wand end. mizu enjoys trying to catch whatever is flying, hanging, or jumping off the stick. raja stays by me and tries to chew the stick itself. i'm not sure what i'd do if they were both trying to get the same thing. maybe hold two?  
 its 2 toys in one!!  both of my guys will chase the stick end of the wand. one of the best reactions i ever got was with a dowel from the hardware store - drove them crazy as they chased the end around the floor. this was the first time i ever saw a cat pant out of exhaustion. as a bonus, the dowel is maybe a meter long so you don't have to stoop down so much. (and you can just go outside and get a stick too.)  
 we play "stick" with our cat too, who loves the stick end of the wand moving around underneath towels, packing/shipping paper, and sheets, as if a teeny bug or rodent is moving around underneath the towel or "underbrush". most fun game ever.  
 i sort of thought this might happen when we got another cat. kaia prefers binx over us now, and i’m happy for her but miss her following me around. they play together, if i hold her she no longer settles into my arms but is trying to get away to see what binx is doing.  binx is the one who follows me now, he’s super affectionate....but kaia has become stand off-ish towards me, runs if i try to pet her and is totally obsessed with binx. i was laying on the couch today, she noticed this and ran to the couch and laid with me...i was surprised! generally though, it’s all about binx now for her.  she’s only 4 months and very playful....i wonder when she grows and calms down if she will want to hang out again, lol. i am glad she’s this happy about her new buddy though (and she is calico, so i was sort of expecting the catittude).  
 i've never had 2 cats at the same time, but i've seen posts before from people who are surprised when their first cat is no longer as clingy, after getting a 2nd cat to keep the first company. so it's a common occurrence.  i think eventually they'll both end up gravitating to their favourite human.   meanwhile, here's an article with 14 cat experts reveal: how to get a cat to like me that might speed up the process.   
 fudge is very vocal and we've also had a neighbour complaint about his meowing (which i thought was very unnecessary considering that the neighbour who complained has two quite vocal cats of her own).  i'd also like to chip in and add a more amusing piece of advice - sometimes, i imitate fudge's meow when he's been meowing for a long time, and he'll stop because he doesn't like it when the humans meow!   
 hi! hmmm, she seems to be working pretty darn hard to get meals. are you feeding her a high protein lower carb canned food? when you have a chance, take a look at this https://catinfo.org/docs/catfoodproteinfatcarbphosphoruschart.pdf also there's this one;catfooddb - cat food reviews to help you find the best cat food for your cat  
 i think the bedroom while cooking is a really good idea. not just to keep her from being stepped on, but to prevent spilling hot water, oil, soup, whatever on her. grease burns are painful and hard to treat.  getting her used to be in the bedroom while cooking is occurring is a good idea. it means when you have guests who help with the cooking, i'm thinking holidays and little parties, kitty won't feel left out. once the cooking is done she could join everyone.  i'm rather appalled by the people who want open concept and have small children or animals. most people i know received a burn or a scald from a kitchen accident as a child. best to keep everyone safe. when kids are older they can learn to cook.  
 a couple weeks back someone posted about the make-them-work-for-it bowls. the idea is that it stretches things about a bit, and they finish it when they are hungry. i'm afraid i don't remember the name, but it struck me as such a clever idea that might help a lot of folks and their cats.  edit: they call them "slow feeder" bowls. something like this:     
 yes i've considered these and will check them out. assume ceramic or glass are best. non-porous material from what i recall.   
 so i have 2 cats 1 years old a male and female, they both share the same litter box and i have had no issues with them ever they are perfect.  we have a 13 weeks old kitten, we have had her for well over a month now and she wont seem to use any litter tray to poo in, some days she will go into the other 2 cats litter tray witch they share and have a poo some day she will go in her litter tray to have a poo but like every other day she will just use a random post on the carpet   it is really getting to me and becoming hard work, i dont know what to do, we use wood chip, but today im going to try change to stoned litter, we never let the big cats into her litter tray but then why would it matter when she some day happily goes into there litter tray   the cats have integrated well and are house cats.   i need help  
 hello and welcome to tcs.   when the kitten poops on the carpet, is it near a litter box? is it normal consistency, or more like diarrhea or like she's constipated. sometimes when it hurts "to go" cats avoid the litter box. when you clean up after her, try putting the waste in the litter box, and letting her see/smell it.   also, how many litter boxes do you have? with 3 cats, the "recommendation" is 4 boxes - one per cat, plus one. so maybe try adding another litter box.  
 he's the only cat. i'm not sure if it's because of the neutering or because he's growing up. but we've noticed the change after we got him neutered. we found some of his baby teeth last week, so we thought it could be teething, but i think he has all of his adult teeth now.  
 my vet told me that even after being neutered, it can take a few weeks for the male hormones to settle down.......just before we had toby neutered at about 5 months....there was a female hanging around outside and he was going nuts trying to get out to her.....it continued for over 2 weeks after he was fixed and then finally dwindled off....might be the same thing with the aggression. linda  
 i'm so grateful for this thread! i unexpectedly got maverick when he was about 6 months old. he had a lot of health issues so i wasn't comfortable getting him neutered until he was healthy and i'd paid off all of the other vet bills which ended up being when he was 10 months old.   i have 2 other cats and all three got along just fine. maverick was neutered 2 weeks ago and just started being agressive towards jester. jester doesn't even want to leave his 'safe spots'. i've had maverick locked in a room for the last 2 days so jester can use the litter box and eat in peace. this aggression came out of nowhere, the only change is maverick's surgery. they've been living together for 4 months without any issues before that.  
 so i am curious -- one of my adult female cats likes to stick her nose inches away from the light bulb in a lamp on a table. the lamp has no light covering so when she sticks her nose toward the light, she is merely inches away from the actual light bulb. why does she do this?  
 how long did you try the hormone diffuser for? those can take awhile for the cat to adjust and it is a slow adjustment. you aren't going to see a quick 180 change immediately...   fancy feast are small cans. look on the back and see how many kcals are in the can. double that and you will know her total kcals for the day. she should be eating around 25 kcals for each pound of her body weight daily. so if she is a 10lb cat she would be eating around 200 kcals per day. first look at all this and make sure she is eating enough.  also stop hitting, smacking and spraying her. that is only going to make her resent you and act out more.  
 i sense stress of your own in this posting. i'm not pointing fingers, because that's how my wife and i joined this site years ago! are you a busy person, at work or in school a lot? even though the recent death in your family doesn't involve you, it seems to involve family that is affected. that can make things worse. if you're feeling stressed, your cat will act out. they'll be annoying. it's a fact, it's life, it happens. this isn't saying you're unfit, get rid of the cat, or anything like it. we have a lot of farm animals, as well as cats, and dogs and if i had to choose between the three when it comes to an emotional "mirror"......cats win. always.  
 i'm a college student too so i understand the time struggle. this semester is kicking my ***. it's hard to study when the furry things want attention. i find timed play breaks work wonders. my cat is an old lady now so she doesn't play much, but she does demand cuddles and will gladly trample a laptop, tablet, textbook, notebook, etc. to get what she wants. my dog needs to play or he turns into a psychopath. try to study for 45 minutes, then play/cuddle for 15. or study for 50 and play/cuddle for 10. your brain needs a break every once in a while and your cat needs to get some energy out. it's also easy to toss a ball or wave a wand toy while proof-reading a paper or reading a textbook.  
 i’m no cat expert but my first instinct was to wonder if she needs another checkup for anything.  
 i agree about going to the vet. a general check up doesn't really mean anything unless they did bloodwork as well. if not get her back in for that asap.  
 i can't afford that. it's like $150 just for a basic workup. i can't always afford flea medicine right now. last time i spoke to a vet about her meowing he said it was behavioral. so i'm thinking this is just more of the same. i know she doesn't like the neighbors because their kids are obnoxiously loud almost every night and management doesn't care. long story but they're all brazilian and i'm not, so they refused to take any kind of action. i think that stress is what triggered her bladder crystals. i have a couple hearing pathologies that make my ears detrimentally sensitive, so i took my diagnoses to them and proved i wasn't making it up. anyway, taking that into account imagine how loud this cat's voice has to be for the neighbors to complain about it. she's an attention whore for sure, and she is probably trying to counter the neighbors' obnoxiousness. it's like when the speaker on a phone is too high and you can tell the person talking is competing with it. except these people are racist bastard and hate me and my cat. that's my best theory, anyway.  
 okay, i took her to a vet and he did a bunch of stuff. he thought she has crystals in her bladder but it wasn't clear on the ultrasound. so he took a urine sample and he found struvite crystals. lately i've only been giving her wet food, so i have no idea how she got them.  anyway, i don't want to give her a bunch of heavy medications so i'm putting tinkle tonic and cbd in her food. the tinkle tonic is supposed to break up crystals and the cbd is for pain. she hates her antibiotic so much she pulled a muscle in her arm just now fighting me. she isn't seriously hurt since she can walk without a limp. she also let me massage her arms for a while after i forced her medicine in her. right now she is being social and sniffing stuff, checking me out, saying hi. she isn't hiding from me or afraid at all, so more evidence she just pulled a muscle. i was using the method the vet showed me using a towel to wrap her arms and legs and popping her jaw open at the corners. she's big -- 13 pounds -- so i got a big scratch and she hurt her shoulder. she's pretty pissed and won't let me hold her right now. i can't wait until it's over.  anyway, is there anything i can do to prevent a recurrence? i can't afford prescription food. it costs like $40 for 2 weeks! there are fancy designer foods with the same stuff in it that the prescription food has, but it's still expensive. is it safe to just give her tinkle tonic every few days? i mean, i'm assuming it works. i haven't found a seriously bad review of the stuff so i think it could at least help. if there's something cheaper and equally effective please tell me. thanks.  
 it sounds like you're doing everything possible. yes, sometimes you just have to fight to get the medicine down. i always made a cup of coffee, did the medicine, washed my scratches and had a bit of a sit down for both of us to recover.  hopefully, in time you will find a better place for you and kit to live.  
 i'm sure the ingredients vary with the manufacturer. you should contact them to find out the details, but, if it were me, i would just assume the inside gel, foam, or combination of foam, gel or other ingredents would be toxic to my cat and i would definitely not make them a toy for my cat.  what are the ingredients of gel in "stress squeeze balls"? at duckduckgo  what is inside squeeze stress balls?  
 these are made in china. so there's really no way to know exactly what's inside i guess. i was thinking more for the kitties that are outside. but i don't want them getting sick. oh well. may just use them for stocking stuffers this year.  
 i would not or if i did, definitely under close supervision.  
 i’m a new cat owner and i’m concerned about my recent cat’s behavior. the last two nights have been so strange. my cat woke me up at between 3-4am. she was meowing/crying outside my bedroom door. i thought maybe something serious happened to her so i woke up right away to see her. she then acted so affectionate with me. i thought it was strange because she’s always biting me. she is going through her teenage years apparently. but i don’t understand the need to act like that and acting affectionate at 3-4am.   has anyone else experienced this? i’m curious to any superstitions too  
 hi. is she spayed? if not, could be her going into heat. some cats while in heat get extremely affectionate. otherwise, could be she is looking for attention. feeby, while she normally sleeps with me, sometimes gets down early and goes off to eat and drink. then, she will come back on the bed and head butt me, or crawl up next to my husband's side (she never head butts him!!). i gather you have your reasons for not letting her have access to your bedroom? if she did, that might just stop the behavior on its own.  
 is she spayed?  
 i agree with at @furballsmom. sounds like maybe the dogs are keeping her away. do the cats have cat trees, more than one litter box etc.? doesn't sound like anything that can't be fixed with a little work and knowledge.  
 what do you mean by fixing it with a little work and knowledge, though?  
 hey guys! so i recently took in two stray female cats. both are skittish, one more than the other. they are super friendly, love attention, but the second they can hide, they do. so i bought two large dog crates yesterday - i was thinking if they were forced to stay out and see what's going on, maybe they would eventually learn that noone is going to hurt them? i've had them for about a month now and have let them have their own room, where it's quiet, but i haven't seen any improvement.   i was hoping you guys could give me some advice on how to turn them into house cats? i would love to socialize these babies and find them great homes. i believe they're sisters and i'm guessing just a year or two old. thanks for any help!  
 ailish was very skittish when i rescued her. when i got her home she was behind a cabinet in my room in seconds. she would come out a little bit to be petted - her weakness. i put food and her litterbox in the room and just went about my business, leaving the door of the room open. she would come out at night, eat and use the box. i barely saw her for over a month. eventually she would come out and go downstairs at night. then she would come on the bed to be petted. she is still kind of skittish with strangers, but she is out and about with me and when she thinks no one is looking she is everywhere in that house. she is also an excellent mouser. she will probably never greet company, but she is loving and bossy when it comes to me.  i would not force a cat to do something. well, go to the vet, or health stuff...  
 hi everyone i'm new here and looking for advice. last week we moved half way across the country for my work and brought our bugaboo with us of course. we moved from a house with 4 people where there was rarely a time someone wasn't home to an apartment with the two of us that are at work or school during the day. now bugaboo hides/sleeps under a bed (new) and has to be talked to or sometimes coaxed out. she's eating as drinking normal. everything in the littler box looks normal. she had always let you know she wants love and still does but she seems mopy. thanks to some homeopathic goodies from vet she did amazing on the 4 day trip. she wasn't in a cage but in the truck cab with us. i have all of her favorite toys, same dishes and liter box. what can i do or should i just give her more time?  
 hi! can you start now if you have a little of the old food left? or can you have the old food, or some of it, shipped to you? the best way to transition to a new food is by putting approximately 25% of the new food on the plate with the other 75% percent being the old food, and then gradually increasing the new food while decreasing the old food.    mistical said: ↑  i feel so bad for our babyclick to expand...  if you find that she's not responding to music and time doesn't seem to be helping, you may want to find a vet and take her in, just to be sure that these changes aren't causing something to crop up. because of course you're right, stress can be hard on a kitty. i'm keeping my fingers crossed that she comes around and starts to be herself again     
 thank you all so much. yes i have just enough of the food to do it that way.  
 thank you so much for this wonderful update!!  
 my neutered male does this to my girl (also spayed) from time to time. i think it's normal behavior. my parents had a pair of litter mate brothers who did it to each other even.   
 hi! if i were you and have keys to all the doors you're worried about, lock them when you go out - and apparently even after you get back in! i sincerely doubt you can break that behavior - especially when you have to also chase after sirvester who is going in the opposite direction. and, reese will likely figure out that drill as well!!!!   whenever i go out a door, feeby comes along and pushes on it to make sure it is completely closed. not too long ago, my husband left one of the doors ajar and we were both outside - next thing i know there is feeby looking at us like: "what's up guys?" i have knobs though (besides she is probably too old and too chubby to jump up that far anyway).  
 i second this. my boy has also figured out how to turn long-handled doorknobs and open windows. in my last place he figured out which were most likely to be unlocked and was constantly testing them. i had to keep them locked or he would be out them in a second. if she has figured out one door she can figure out the others.   
 one of my grandchildren, when he was about three yrs old, managed to open the front door and he trotted off to the nearby main road. it ended well. we couldn't rely on my tribe to keep the door locked all the time so we added an extra handle so two at once had to be used. that foiled the youngest ones until they had enough sense to not disappear on their own. it was a quick and easy fix.  
 i saw your thread about the one siamese kitten you brought home last week being really scared..  maybe another new kitten, especially with high energy such as a bengal, wouldn't be a great idea until she grows some and is more confident/comfortable in her home.  
 yes, it is instinct. the only thing i have found with bottle babies is they tend to be needier as adult cats. this makes sense to me, though.  
 i think it's normal for kittens to be a bit obnoxious to adult cats. i've seen a litter of kittens chasing each other near mom, another cat walks up and when the kittens came towards her she hissed, but they weren't fazed. they were too busy chasing other things.  
 ever since we got my female cat, ertha, my male cat emerson has always disliked her. they used to fight a lot but now they seem like they're just playing. but just now today, ertha has suddenly acted so terrified of emerson and he keeps hissing and growling at him. we have now separated them for about 15 minutes. she has never acted like this before. i am thinking about reintroducing them to each other or possibly getting rid of ertha, even though i would really hate to do that. someone please help me out, it will mean the world to me.  
 thanks everyone for the answers! after about an hour of locking emerson up in a room, they started getting back along and ertha stopped being terrified. i guess she was just being a little weirdo or as one of you said, got startled or got a small scratch. i hope they'll get just a little more along with each other, as we've had them both together for almost a year. thanks again!  
 i am spaying my female ragdoll next week. she is currently in heat for about 4 days now. did not think this was the season for it. the weather is cooler and the days are shorter. when cats are in heat, do they eat less? she's not eating much now. once a female cat is spayed, what are the usual changes in their looks, behavior, and personality?  
 some cats have seasonal heat cycles, while others have heat cycles all year round. also, the seasonality of heat cycles can be affected by artificial light indoors.  some cats don't eat as much when they are in heat, but some just keep on eating as usual. it's an individual thing in my experience.  after your girl is spayed, you won't see heat related behavior such as yowling and peeing all over the house... whew!  but otherwise, most spayed cats don't change very much, other than not coming into heat any more. if a cat was having behavior issues before getting spayed (aggressive, territorial, etc), sometimes those things get better after the spay. some cats have more of a tendency to gain weight, but that's not true for all.  
 hello, i have a female cat who is about 2 years old. we spend a ton of time with but were hoping she could have a buddy. we got an 8 week old kitten and have slowly been introducing her. my older cat has been completely cold and aggressive. it went from her being by my side all day to growling and hissing. i'm aware of female cat aggression and about evading ones territory but my question is...is there a point that it may be time to consider alternate housing for the kitten?  
 hello and welcome to tcs. congrats on the new kitten. hopefully in time she and your older cat will be best buds.   a week, as you know, is super short by a cat's standards, so don't start worrying about rehoming the kitten any time soon. just keep doing the slow introductions. and ensure you spend enough time with your older cat. and tell her you love her, and she's not being replaced.   and 8 weeks is really young. these days the recommended adoption age is 12 to 16 weeks. so you probably need to keep the kitten separated from your older cat till she is bigger.   once they start interacting, you may find your older cat seems to play rough with the kitten. some of that will be her teaching the kitten manners. but if the kitten seems scared, or if there is fur flying or blood shed, then separate them until the kitten is bigger.  here's a tcs article on how to introduce a kitten to an older cat that should have some tips for you.  good luck. keep us posted. and do post pics of your kitties, if you can.  how to add a picture to your forum post  
 i have brought my cats and birds over before, they have been ok with it as long as they are on a leash.  
 does anyone else have a cat that seriously acts bipolar? one minute my cats is loving and playful and the next he does not want to be touched and hissing at everyone and it all started after him trying to hack up a hair ball.  
 generally we just refer to it as "cattitude." i think this applies to all cats to some extent, especially indoor only cats who may not get enough exercise. (and i'm not suggesting that making a cat indoor-only is a bad thing - it has a significant lengthening effect on their life spans.) providing enough play time may help, but i don't think there's any way to get rid of it entirely.  margret  
 hi, i have a dilemma. i have 2 cats. thinking about a third to play with my younger cat. here's some background on my cats to help you understand why i want a third/for you to provide input on if you think it's a good idea.  -older cat is 8 years old (shelters guess, he could be older or younger), mellow, and gentle  -younger cat is 1 year old and very playful, can be a bully to the older cat (but i think it's mostly because he's bored)  so i got younger cat to be a buddy to older cat. yeah, in hindsight perhaps not the best pairing due to the age difference. i did think it could work though, because my older cat is playful and easygoing, but i know now he likes play, just not with his younger brother.   so things aren't outright hostile all the time (things are peaceful 70-80% of the time) and i never worry that they will kill or seriously injure one another, but chasing (younger chasing older) is an every day thing in our household. the older hisses and gets backed into corners, and will start swiping when the younger cat doesn't get the memo that his brother doesn't want to play. very rarely does it escalate to a fight, and a lot of the time my husband or i will separate them before that could happen. we leave them out together while we are at work 8am-5pm, and they do fine. i think this is because it's day time that the younger cat is more relaxed and sleeps most of the day. when we are home at night he is always extremely hyper though. and i know the solution is to play with him, and believe me we do! i usually do two 20 minute play sessions at night but it doesn't wear him out  i will go back to sit on the couch and sometimes minutes later he will be pouncing or swatting at the older cat again. & i have looked up engaging ways to play with cats, like trying to play effectively so the toy imitates prey. i also take the cats on walks since they are harness trained which does help burning energy but i live in a very northern place so soon it will be too cold to take them out.   then there's the night time routine. currently we take turns with them in having one sleep out in our bedroom/main area and the other sleeps in the spare room. we make the spare room as comfy as possible and it has a litter box, food, water, cushions, and we lure them in there at night with treats or catnip to try and make it more positive  we do this because the younger cat is so hyper at night and we just hear him heckling his brother and hisses, and running around which makes it hard to sleep. so what worries me about getting a third cat is the fact that we will have to have new cat separated in the spare room for the slow introduction period. due to our night time routine, this could mean unpleasant nights for all of us--me and my husband because it will be hard for us to sleep, and my older cat because he won't get to sleep on the bed with us (the younger cat will certainly chase him off of it), and the younger cat because he's bored. i did consider that we could put a litter box in our room and still take turns with having younger and older sleep in the room with us while leaving the other in the living area, and the new cat in the spare room. ideally eventually i want all to be able to sleep wherever with no closed doors but it's difficult now.  alright with all that background, here's the main reasons why i'm thinking about a third cat: to give my younger cat a play buddy (which hopefully in turn will mean my older cat will get a break) and to give a shelter cat a home. i would want cat #3 to be 2-5 years old probably, and playful but not domineering/aggressive. at the shelter i met a sweet girl 2 years old and her shelter note says very active so thats good. she is very sweet i could see her getting along with both my cats, but i don't know her history with other cats. but you just never know, my fear is getting a third, it not working out, and then having to take them back. the other part of me says that even though that sucks and is hard on the cat, it's also a good thing because if it doesn't work i will be able to provide the shelter more information on what would be the best home for the cat which would increase their chance of a successful adoption. i'm also nervous about stressing out my older cat. he has asthma and while we have it really well controlled now and he is doing so well on his inhaler, i still worry about him. i fear that the younger + cat #3 would gang up on him which would make things worse but the hope is they will mostly play with each other.  based on all of this information, do you guys think it's a good idea to get a third cat? oh and i think we have enough room..1000 sq ft apartment 2 bedrooms.  thank you to anyone that answers and makes it through this wall of text  
 while i tend to be a rule follower, since it is unlikely that a third cat would actually cause issues with your landlord, i think trying to make it better now might be best for you and your cats.   when you got the new one, how did the introduction go?   vertical space is always good! six of ours like to be up high. because of the space issue, being creative when making vertical space was essential, as it will be with you. we have two towers; a raised cat bed; window beds; an old tall footrest; shelves; bookshelves; a large bench style ottoman that triples as a cat bed, a footrest, and a gaming area; and the space above our cabinets. they are also permitted on the furniture and beds.   
 yeah, it does! our baby silas got cleared by the vet to be around other cats and he was out! he was only four/five weeks old when we found him. he is three months now. only two of the others do not thrilled to have him around, yet they have warmed up a lot. our freya was a feral kitten who did not really warm up to the other cats very well. it took almost two years for her to start being affectionate to anyone but my daughter. freya loves silas. it is wonderful seeing her interact with him.   
 isnt it funny how they just choose someone? aww, i love that. happy for freya that she has a little pal and for silas that he is accepted <3   
 so i bought a house, and the next door neighbour has two cats, casper and daisy.  i rarely see casper, but daisy is now a firm feature in my life. she comes over every day, and waits outside my back or front door, depending on my schedule, which she seems to have picked up on somewhat. i work nights, so i tend to see her in the day.  my neighbour remarked on how she'd taken to me, as he said she was usually nervous of new people, and he'd also told me she was an outdoors cat, and wouldn't even go inside his house anymore, and that when they'd recently been a big thunderstorm, he'd left the window open for her, but she'd stayed outside sheltered under some tarpaulin.  well, she has no such reservations with my house. at first she would just sit in the grass, or on the back step and peer into the kitchen and observe me, but now she will just wander in and out as she pleases. i have to make sure the kitchen door to the rest of the house is closed, or i end up having to search the house for her.  if i sit down on the back steps, or in a dining chair in my kitchen, or in a deckchair in the backyard, she jumps up onto my knees, and pushes her head into my hands so i can pet her, or she can sit in my lap and observe the garden, or just look at me, and occasionally tap me with her paws, then usually settles down for a sleep of a few hours, or however long i have to spare, before i rouse her. i've taken to leaving books lying around, so i can have something to do whilst she snoozes away in my lap.  if she's not sure if she's allowed in, if she can see i'm sitting eating, and thus there is no room on my lap, i only have to pat my lap, and she will come in and leap up, and then depending on what i'm eating, she goes up my arm and sits across my shoulders, sometimes just perching on one, either making abortive attempts for the food, and just loudly purring in my ear. i can even get up and wander around with her on my shoulders, whilst i make myself a cup of tea or whatever. or she will perch on the back of the dining chair, til i come sit back down.  she follows me up and down the garden as well, if i'm going to the shed, or to put out washing, she just wanders down the path after me, or if i am gardening, she just sits in the grass and watches me.  she has scent-marked the backdoor, the dining room table, whatever book i'm holding (not by spraying, but by rubbing her cheeks on them - at first i just thought she had itchy cheeks, til i looked that up), and i think she must have been neutered, as she hasn't tried to spray in the house. she doesn't do any of her business in the house, although she did start to use the vegetable patch i dug, as i assume she thought it was a giant litter tray for her. she also sits in my lap and grooms herself and also occasionally me. oh, and she uses my gate posts as scratching posts.  anyway, the point of all this is, as she clearly has decided i belong to her, now i am worried for her welfare.  like, should i consider feeding her? she's managed for 10 years on her own, and i'm assuming my neighbour still leaves out food for her. and our garden's back onto a forest anyway, so i'm sure there's lots of wildlife she could catch.  i was putting out a bowl of milk, til i was told milk is bad for cats, so i stopped that, and put out a bowl of water instead, so on hot days she will have something to drink. she has also licked a plate clean that had had salmon on it, when i'd turned my back, and i've also once gave her the the remains of cooked lamb on the bone that i'd had left over. she now seems to think i'm going to feed her though because she just look inside and meows, even if i'm outside and she comes up to me then goes back to the backdoor looking inside, like she's waiting for me to go get her food. and to my shame i eventually go and give in, and get her a teeny piece of tinned salmon. i don't want to have accidentally made her dependent on me for food. also, i don't have a cat-flap, i can't be leaving my backdoor open for her at all hours for her to come and go, and equally i don't want to leave the windows open either, as i don't want flying pests coming in. but i feel guilty, because if i've been upstairs in the house for hours on end, then come down, and open the backdoor, she's sat there waiting for me, and i don't know how long she's been waiting. another also, her claws could probably do with being trimmed, depending on what i'm wearing, they go right through the fabric, and whilst they don't puncture my skin, they can be sharp. on that note, should i buy a scratching post, to save my poor gate posts?  plus, my parents are not cat people and will freak over having a cat around when they finally come to visit. luckily, they live about 400 miles away, but i have just over a month before they show up, but i don't know what i'm going to do when they do.  mind you, she may not want to come in, whilst they're here.  what am i to do? i can't tell my neighbour "oh, by the way, i've accidentally stolen the affections of that cat you had since she was a kitten", plus i have no idea how to take care of a cat, plus she's not even my cat! i am on a cat website, for a cat that is not even my cat. this is a ridiculous state of affairs. should just let things carry on as they are or what?  any insight on this matter would be much appreciated.  
 aww. i'm so glad you both found each other! your neighbor did really care about her afterall.   really sorry for your loss...but glad she was with you in her final years.  
 very sorry for the loss of your daisy! i new here, so as i read our thread, i'm thinking this is a cool story! then, i looked at the date, ok 4 1/2 years ago. then wondered who bumped the thread?  anyways, again, i'm very sorry for your loss!  pops  
 i just read the whole story for the first time, and if i have ever heard anything about star-crossed kitty/human pairs this was almost magical. i’m so sad that she recently passed, but what ana amazing time you two had. sounds like she choose the right person. my heartfelt condolences, and yet my heartfelt congratulations on such and amazing love you shared.  
 thank you for sharing your and daisy's story. i'm sorry for your loss. she obviously chose you and i'm glad you two found each other!  
 hi everyone,  sorry in advance for the long post but i'm in a situation with my cat that's incredibly stressful and i'm hoping someone has some wisdom to share!  so about a month ago, i moved into a new apartment with my cat. it was really the best thing for my own sanity because in my previous apartment, i had 4 (honestly 5) roommates, and a tiny bedroom with no window--i could hardly think straight or sleep at night, but i lived there for two years because it's all i could afford. my roommates and i had three cats between us, including mine (and a bearded dragon, not mine), and a covered porch and backyard where the cats could go outside and lounge, though it always made me nervous when my own cat went out and i kind of wished i could just keep her inside. the problem is that she was already used to the porch, because she was originally a stray kitten in a litter taking shelter on the porch, and i took her in. my roommate took in a another of the cats, who was already full-grown and probably related to mine-- not her mother, but we think maybe her aunt. (ps, we found homes for all the kittens.) at first my cat seemed pretty feral and like she would only do well as an only cat, so i thought in a broken-hearted way that i wouldn't get to keep her, but then it turned out that she that she got used to the other cats, and played/was affectionate with them sometimes, though she was still always pretty independent.   meanwhile after a grueling search, i was lucky enough to land a new job that i genuinely enjoy (my old job was also terrible so that didn't help anything), and that pays enough for me to move out of the old place and live by myself, which is what i always dreamed of doing but thought i could never afford here in nyc. so now i've moved into my own studio apartment (there is a separate kitchen, bathroom, and hallway though, and three closets, so it's not just one big square, and i have a loft bed so it feels like there's plenty of space). the new apartment is so much better for me personally, but i'm so worried about my cat! because to make things worse, the new job is full-time, 9-5, so she's alone all day until about 6pm. when she first got here she absolutely freaked out, meowing all the time and following me around, and the first two days i came back from work to find her hiding/sleeping under a pile of clothes in the closet--i almost had a heart attack when i couldn't find her at first!  the thing is, i feel incredibly guilty about separating her from the other two cats but it was really inevitable; all the cats belonged to different people and it's not like i could live with my roommates forever. and i thought the sooner i separated her from them, the better, so that she could hopefully get used to it while she was still young (she's 2). everyone keeps saying i should get another cat but my landlord and downstairs neighbor would not like that, and the landlord probably wouldn't even allow it --i had to get special permission to even have one cat, and apparently the downstairs neighbor complained a lot about the previous tenant's cat running around so i have to watch out for that. my cat has been quiet but if there were two, they would definitely run around and chase each other, and my landlord warned me before i signed the lease that if the cat is "a serious problem" i can't keep her. (obviously i would keep her; i'd just have to move out, which would be a nightmare.) i also don't think i could handle the extra responsibility and expense of another cat--my cat also has flutd, which cost a small fortunate at the vet's to figure out, and now that's another thing i have to always monitor, and pay extra for prescription food--and i don't think there's really space here for two cats anyways. i've also read that getting one cat just for the sake of another cat is a bad idea, because for one thing, what if they don't get along and never get used to one another?  anyway, i'm trying to make the best of the situation for her; i got her a window hammock, which she loves, and i put bird feeders by two of my windows, but the birds in this courtyard still haven't noticed them. i wish they would, because she sits by the window, looking for birds for hours and getting so excited if a pigeon flies by, like, once a day.  i also play nature videos for her on my tv while i'm at work (i alternate nature videos with a black screen so they're not just playing all day, because i figure if they play all day, she'll get bored with them), which she likes. i bought an aquarium too, thinking some fish might keep her entertained, but when i put it together yesterday, i realized the humming sound of the filter would drive me nuts, and i could just get her a fake aquarium; there are some realistic ones and she won't know the difference, and it'd be way less work for me. i really don't want any more pets of any kind.  i also installed a cat pheromone diffuser (can't tell if that makes a difference), and a little pet security camera so i can log into an app on my phone and see what she does during the day; she pretty much just sleeps on the couch, sometimes watches the nature videos, and sometimes sleeps on my loft bed, which is not too different from what she does when i'm here. i also try to play with her a lot when i'm here (on the couch so the neighbor downstairs doesn't hear it) and have gotten her all kinds of toys, plus a little cat cube/condo thing that i haven't assembled yet.  sorry to go on and on but basically my point is, i'm almost out of things to try, and i'm still so worried that she's miserable. she still follows me around the apartment (though not quite as much as before), and wakes me up meowing every morning, but she doesn't even want anything -- her food bowl is full, and i'll put on a nature video but she's not interested--beyond me being awake. once she sees that i'm awake, she'll settle down and look out the window, but if i fall back asleep she starts meowing again. so that's messing with my sleep too, when one of the whole reasons i moved out of my old apartment was that it was so noisy with all the people and animals, and i couldn't sleep! the building i moved into is miraculously quiet, but if she's always meowing at me, it doesn't even matter. it's messing with my social life too, because i feel guilty leaving her alone more than i have to, so i've been passing up opportunities to hang out with people after work, or doing things on the weekends, because i just want to be at home and make sure she's okay.  which is all to say, does anyone have any thoughts or advice on her behavior, or if there's anything else i can do besides getting another cat? is it too much to expect her to adjust to such a different situation after only a month? this is stressing me out so much because i really love my cat and i just want her to be happy, but i also couldn't stay in a living situation that was making me miserable. people keep telling me that if i'm happier, she'll be happier, but so far it doesn't seem like it.   thanks in advance to anyone who even got to the end of this, or even skimmed it!  <3 emily  
       
 thank you!!  
 thank you!! and yeah i've definitely seen other cat forums where people asked for advice after having to separate their cat from other cats and many people replying were horrible and merciless about considering human as well as feline happiness so i'm very glad i actually posted on this one!   
 you can ask this breeder for owners that already have kittens and communicate with them.  
 congratulations on your move and your new job! ultimately, the happier you are, the happier your cat will be, so it's 100% ok to enjoy these things even though it brings some adjustments for your cat. you're also doing everything you can to keep your cat healthy and happy during the transition, so you have no reason at all to feel guilty.  i've had two cats, one of whom was very set in her ways, and i've moved with these cats five times total (counting their initial adoptions). with each move, it took them weeks to get used to the new space, find hiding spaces, and develop confidence. i think that's par for the course, and no matter how much you try to help them get used to their new space, there's no rushing the process.  my first cat started her life in a tiny loft studio, and moved twice with us to bigger apartments. for her, though, i don't think size was the biggest consideration. she loved that studio because she liked perching on the bed and in the window and always having vertical space. when she was a tiny kitten, i wrapped the ladder up to the loft with sisal twine, and she would shimmy up it. does your cat have access to the loft? if she seems to like it, maybe you could provide her with a little hidey-hole up there that's her space.  i don't think getting another cat is necessary, and it's not always the best option. my first cat was thrilled to be an only cat, and lived a very happy life very bonded to her humans. plus, introducing a new cat on top of the move and other changes in your cat's routine could be counter-productive because it would be yet another big change to get used to. your other reasons are also very good ones!  
 we were going to do some canning this afternoon and some bagged spices were left on the counter. i went into the kitchen to find celery seed and turmeric all over the floor, counter, and all over indy. she was rolling in the bags, licking the celery seed, and acting like she was on some really strong catnip; she was even getting aggressive when i tried taking the baggies away from her. she (a black cat) also turned orange from the turmeric.  the vet was called and he said that she shouldn't get sick from eating either spice.  so, that being said: does anyone else's cats go bonkers when they smell/eat celery seed? i can't say i've ever seen anything like it before!  
 new one on me, but i'm going to give it a try!  
 oh sure, weeks after i clean out my spices and toss the dried celery leaves that i used never, i find something i would like to try with them. repeating to myself “i won’t buy celery leaves” a dozen times.  
 but you know you will, just to see if it works!   
 everytime i open the fridge, we have two cats that sniff the hell out of the carrot tops ... they seem to just love it. i wonder if that's related to celery at all...  
 why, yes, they are, indeed!  foods in the carrot family – including parsley, celery, and caraway — eat, don't eat  
 oh interesting! thanks for the article.   
 so i don’t know if its a nutrient deficiency or what. but both my cats will lick and eat non-food items.  it went from cords to my bra straps to now my tank top. what can be done about this? i bought chewable toys, etc. but i can’t deter the behavior and i’m concerned about their health.  oh btw, my tank top strap isn’t thin.    
 i would be asking the vet, this is kind of strange that both of them are doing this at such a young age! nutrient deficiencies can do this, but it's hard to tell what the deficient nutrient is.  i'm curious what would happen if you took something simple, like a medium sized rubber dog toy and soaked/smeared it in chicken broth or tuna juice.  
 missy mimics buddy in everything. such as eating, exploring a closet, playing with a toy, etc. she won’t do anything unless he has done it at least once or twist.   as for buddy, the initiator, it could be my scent. he likes to lick me - i hate it - but.....  i think i’ll take buddy to the vet to see what needs to be done.   
 hi! so right now i have two cats, one 5 year old and one barely 2 year old. today is my birthday and i got a new cat, maybe 14 weeks. the older cat is the only one inside right now, but even if the new cat doesn't seem that scared of him, the old cat is simply so grumpy. the new cats want to sniff at him but the old cat (pluto) simply hisses and growls a bit further away. at first when i got gibby, the 2year old, they both raised their backs and hissed but became friends after a few days. will they get used to eachother at the end of the day? is it garuanteed?  now another small question. the new cat has a bit of a beer belly, where flesh is kind of hanging down (amazing explanation, i know) but how do i get rid of it the easiest?  cheers!  
 hi!  happy birthday, what better gift than your new baby?   guaranteed? no, but likely? yes.  try some music, it'll help all your felines relax (there's an app called relax my cats, there's harp music, there is musicforcats.com etc)  about that beer belly, your description was fine, and the thing of it is just about everybody here knows what you're talking about lol  i think it's called a primordial pouch, and my boy has it. he's 13 years old, and at his last vet visit, the vet was even teasing him a little bit about it, in a loving kind of way . it's normal.  for your kitten, be sure and feed as much as it can consume, for up to a year or even longer if it is a big breed kitty. there's so much growth going on they need all the nutrients they can get.  for your adult cats, here's an adult cat body chart you can utilize to make sure they're ok, belly pouch or otherwise   https://irp-cdn.multiscreensite.com/6aadfd4c/files/uploaded/body_scoring_system-chart cat.jpg  
 hello and welcome to tcs.   and congrats on the new kitten.   has the kitten had a vet checkup yet? the flabby belly could be caused by worms, so he might need deworming. it could also be as @furballsmom mentioned, a primordial pouch, but i thought they developed once a cat got older, and not as much in kittens.   about your older cat not welcoming the kitten with open paws, if you can, it would be best to keep the kitten separated from the other cats and do a cat introduction. here's a tcs article on how to introduce a kitten to an older cat with more info.  do you have pics of the kitten? and the other cats? we love pictures.   how to add a picture to your forum post   
 hello everyone! so i recently adopted an 8 week old kitten about a day ago and experiencing a little trouble with her. so yo start when i went to go pick her up from the lady i was getting her from the luna (the cat) was so friendly and calm to the point that she even rubbed up against my leg. in that moment i knew she was perfect. but since then there have been some issues. on the drive back to my apt i had my friend hold on to her whiles i drove, which in retrospect a cage would have been a smarter idea. she was fine for most of the trip until i stopped at walmart. i ran in to grab some stuff for the new addition and when i returned to the car i was informed that luna have retreated under the car seat. i decided to drive home and figure out how to get her out when i got back. when i finally got back home i tried to grab her and that’s when she proceeded to hiss and paw at me. i then decided to wait it out and leave some food and water out in an attempt to lure her out. i waited about 3 hours before i realized waiting wasn’t going to work. my roomate at the time suggested grabbing her quickly with a towel and placing her into my room. i agreed and she did just that. she hissed a lot but atleast she was out of the hot car. when she got to my room she found a corner to hide in and remained there for the rest of the day. i attempted to approach and pet her but got hissed at each time. she stayed in that corner all night. i should also mention that she still have not been eating and drinking this whole time. day 2 wasn’t much different (from the moments i was in the room)except for the addition of a persistent meow. day 3 i was out all day studying and when i returned i expected the same results but to my delight luna have finally pooped into the litter, meaning he must have eaten something. also she is starting to explore the room more and even played with the laser pointer light that i bought. i took all of these things as good signs but still as she’s exploring she would occasionally climb up on my night stand and approach me but would start to hiss whenever i moved. to be totally honest, i’m actually a little afraid to let her approach me when she still seems pretty scared of my movements and i kind of move obnoxiously in bed to prevent her from advancing closer. i’m just scared of 1 being attacked and 2 me reacting in a way that scares her even more which would reinforce her behavior and set back the progress she is already making. she is currently napping on the window nearest to me. i’m having a hard time letting myself fall asleep in fear that she tries to approach me and in doing so i wake up and startle her. any tips or advice would be much appreciated  
 hello and welcome to tcs. congrats on the adoption of little luna. sorry you're having a few little issues. hopefully things will be better soon.  tcs has some articles for new cat owners that might be helpful.   btw, these days the "recommendation" is to keep kittens with their mom and siblings till at least 12 weeks so they have time to learn all the cat manners. obviously that isn't always possible, so here is an article on teach your kitten how to play nice : the humane society of the united states that you might want to read.  and here are the links to the tcs articles:  first-time cat owner's guide  9 tips that will help your kitten adapt to a new apartment kitten proofing your home: 13 practical tips  why is my cat growling? cat sounds - feline vocal communication  playing with your cat: 10 things you need to know 14 cat experts reveal: how to get a cat to like me  good luck. post a picture of luna, if you can.  how to add a picture to your forum post  
 some day when you plan on being home - at least most of the morning - "forget" to leave window open and see if she resorts to the litter box. if she hasn't peed elsewhere in your house, i presume she will go use the litter box. then, after a while, whether or not she has used the litter box, you can "remember you forgot to open the window" and let her out.   if you try this experiment and she pees somewhere in your house other than the litter box, you can cuss me out on this thread!!   
 i would try carrying a penny-can everywhere i go in the house. if she starts hunting you or attacking you, shake the can & tell her no. at the same time 3 times a day really play with her. i mean running around the house with wand toys to get her really moving (and spending her energy on toys not you.) hopefully 3, 20 minute play sessions will drain her energy? if not, harness walks every day might help. * a penny-can is an empty soda can with pennies or other small coins in it, with tape on top of it to hold the pennies in. when shaken it creates a loud noise that startles cat.  
 first how old is she? she may be teething. buy cat chew toys whether she is teething or not, to give her an alternative to chewing wires.  second create one cat room and buy cord covers (like critter covers.) it might be worth trying a bitter lemon spray. until you can stop her chewing having keep her in her kitty room unless she is supervised.  if she isn't teething and the vet says her teeth are ok, then it might be pica.  
 your average auto supply store may also have pre split cord covers as they’re often used in cars to protect wires. one of my cats loved them and chewed them his entire life  
 i have not been by here for quite a while. i figured our story would be of interest to you people here.  as some of you may remember we have two black cats, dexter now called doodle cat, and hunter now called tubby cat. we are in hawaii, on big island, and live in leilani estates. in case you've been asleep, that's where the on going volcanic eruption is happening. we have not been directly threatened by the lava flows but they have been occurring within a mile of our home.  while not knowing what, both cats have know that something is not right. both have demanded a lot of attention and reassurance since the fun began. they still wandered off and peruse their territories, but spent more time at home than before. dexter is the smaller, more active and acrobatic of the two. he will probably be the one to die first from misadventure. hunter is the bigger, meaner looking of the two, but less outgoing.  we were finally forced to leave by the county's civil defense organization. putting them into a cage and hauling them 20 miles to our new temporary location was horrifyingly traumatic for them. they have been outdoor cats, allowed to come and go as they pleased. the trip in the cage, in the back of a truck, then the new house left them absolutely terrorized. then, the owners sent someone in to clean the gutters and roof with power equipment. as at our home, domestic water here is from catchment originating from the house's roof. it again terrorized both cats. they spent all day hiding under sofas and beds.  i've come to have a better understanding of both cat's personalities that was never quite so obvious before. dexter is a more resilient individual, better able to handle the stresses. hunter, on then other hand, is so much more timid. he has turned into a quivering mass of fear. i used to call him 'fraidy cat when he was younger. it has become so much more obvious the last few days that he still is. he requires a lot more attention and reassurance than dexter.  i have to spend a lot of time petting and holding him trying to put him at ease. i hope this ends soon with not losing our home. the cats will be better able to handle going back to a territory they know than ending up in another strange place when we relocate from where we're at now.  i knew relocating them was going to be problematic, but didn't think it would be to this extent.  
 @voyager nice to see you here again. sorry you and your cats' lives have been so disrupted by the volcano. hopefully your home will be safe, and things will be back to normal soon.  
 more to the heart of the problem are the number of abandoned pets in the area. the county came through spreading alarm telling lies and giving misleading information trying to get people to evacuate the threatened areas. i have seen cats and dogs sitting at driveway entrances waiting for someone to come home weeks after the owners left. even animals that are not allowed by the ccrs, pet pigs, chickens, turkeys, and a few others have been wandering around.  do not start on me about trying to save all the abandoned. i had enough to deal with trying to stay in our home while the county was doing everything in its power to force everyone out.  the spca did send a few people in to try getting some animals out. they were only after dogs because cats were too hard to catch. plus, the only time i ever saw them was while they were sitting in a vehicle parked at an intersection for hours at a time. i don't think very many animals were rescued.  a good part of why we stayed as long as we did was our refusal to abandon our animals, ok just 2 cats, as well as the number of abandoned homes that were vandalized and looted. there is much more to this than a simple volcanic eruption. i'm not going to go into a complete rundown on all the problems. its too complicated and it doesn't concern anyone here.  property lines will not change. all lots are 1 acre: 100' x 465.6', that will not change. a new survey will set your corner post atop the new lava rock over the old corner posts or where it should be if it shifted. some people on previously inundated areas have rebuilt on the bare lava rock. any newly formed land on the cost will belong to the government body that claims it.  
 hi and welcome!   i'm so sorry for the loss of your darling lucy. she will always be loved and never forgotten.   i agree with you 100%. the dog will be ok at home for a while. violet is still getting used to her new home and family. she could definitely be upset by the addition of a strange dog (even just a visit). introducing a dog to a cat should ideally be done over time. since his dog and his cat get along so well, the dog can stay home and keep the cat company.  you are not being unreasonable at all. imo he's the one being unreasonable. it's your home (and now violet's too). he should respect your wishes without argument. tell him you will send him home with some plain turkey meat for the dog and cat to enjoy as a consolation prize.  
 honestly, i close the cats up in a separate room if i have a lot of people over. i don't trust a crowd not to keep the door open or step on a cat or something. so i'd just say to prepare a cozy bedroom for her, slap a sign on the door, and then you don't have to worry about dogs or kids or open doors. but that's just me . you have to decide what you think is best.   but yeah, if he lives far away, too far to go home to let the dog out, etc., it would be nice if you could find some way to accommodate the dog, even if she stays in the car or the backyard.  
 and put a sign on the door to the cat room to "please don't open this door. the cats need their privacy." of course when we did that the relative that was terrified of cats opened the door and was rushed by all 6, but no sympathy for nosy people.  ask your son if he's sure he wants to take the dog for a car trip on a high traffic day. i wouldn't. the police and emts will take care of people in an accident but nine times out of ten your dog or cat can whistle for help.  
 wow so many unfriendly dog people here! i personally won't go anywhere i can't bring my dog, especially on holidays since my animals are my family and i love them much more than the humans that are still alive in my family. my mom was amazing and she raised me that pets are family too and we don't abandon them. my pets were her family just as hers were and all were welcome in her house or mine on holidays, as well as any that i watched for my friends. the more i see and hear the more i realize how rare and special a person she truly was and miss her. my dad hates pets no matter how trained they are. that's why i don't travel to see them. my sister likes them but has given up a few and thinks she's an expert after working at a shelter for years. we have very different views so i stay quiet.   she insists it's impossible to tame feral cats, i've done it successfully several times. she took in a dog who chased her cats and had separation anxiety and rehomed it saying it was impossible to train. my dog had the same issues at first but is perfect now, i put time and money into him and trained him. i don't give up on animals but give them forever homes. if your son's dog is fine with cats it actually is good to socialize your kitten young to be exposed to dogs and people so it won't be afraid of everything. this could have been the start of a beautiful friendship between your son's dog and your kitten and your son and you could have had a better relationship.  no pitbull bashing! my last dog was an akita pitbull mix who i had for eleven years. he was absolutely perfect. helped me with my horses, i had seven cats including kittens and he was gentle and friendly to all of them and to people. even tolerated aggressive kittens and cats attacking him and never fought back. perfect manners, perfect recall was loose everywhere i brought him everywhere and he loved everyone. i still miss him every day. dogs are how you raise and train them, the breed discrimination is total bs. my current large dog is mixed breed and i use him as a therapy dog. he found cancer in two of my cats and was completely devastated when his cat buddy died. he's gentle with little dogs and my little cat bosses him around. he also has perfect manners doesn't bark unless to protect me and is quiet and just sits at my feet in public even at restaurants with food right near him.  he's more well behaved and quiet than many children and adults i see in public. so i wouldn't go anywhere he's not welcome since i've spent years training him. he's a great therapy dog. if a cat or kitten is afraid of just seeing him lying quietly at my feet on a leash, that's not my problem. he has separation anxiety and won't eat or drink at all when i leave him, or play even if i leave him with his best friend dogs. he's on medication so he doesn't cry and howl and destroy the house anymore but he's still very sad and anxious when i leave him, he's just quiet about it now.  on holidays i want to be with him too. he's quiet and well behaved and brings me joy and loves going places with me and loves making friends with new people. why would i leave him alone starving himself miserable and stressed because of your anxiety? the kitten has the whole house to go in another room if it wants to. kittens are naturally curious and you missed a great training and socialization opportunity to teach it that dogs are great friends. maybe your son should train his dog to listen better. but if it's not a threat to the kitten, your son and his dog are family and should have both been welcome. would you not allow his significant other or kids to come over because they might make the kitten uncomfortable, even if they didn't do anything wrong? as someone who's had many cats and dogs and knows a lot about both cat and dog behavior, they do best when raised together young, but can be just fine at any age if you're firm with limits on any rough play or aggression and use lots of rewards for good peaceful coexistence.  
 not pit bull bashing, mentioned breed to indicate size and strength. mentioning he was aggressive towards other animals. none of that was intended to bash the breed as a whole and i apologize if you read it that way. but a dog that injuried his owner to the point of needing over a hundred stitches later on is not one i want around my cats in any situation. and this particular dog did maul a person resulting in surgeries and lasting scars.  while your dogs may have been well trained, not all dogs are. even though my cats can go anywhere else in the house why should they be put through the stress and anxiety of a dog in the house for the ease of someone else's animal? my cats happiness and comfort is not something i trade for someone else's pet. i have a little girl who is incredibly anxious and takes medication for it. bringing in a strange dog for a few hours will ramp up her anxiety and could cause her to become nearly catatonic. the last time a strange animal was in my house for 10 minutes she refused to move or eat for nearly 24 hours. i doubt a once or twice a year visit from the same animal would change her reaction or develop a good relationship between the two animals.   i realize people with dogs are really attached at times. i realize some want their dogs to go everywhere. if that is the mindset of someone who wants to visit, we will meet at a dog friendly location away from my home. just like someone doesn't want to cause anxiety for their dog by leaving it at home, i don't want to cause anxiety for my cats by bringing it to my home. there is a middle ground of neutral territory or going to the other home. me opening my home to a dog of any level of training, even if it is a perfect angel, is not something i am required to do or must do. i also have a rabbit now who can have a heart attack very easily if startled by a dog. which adds another level of risk i am simply not willing to take.  my aunt has a dog she loves dearly (she got it from her husband six months before he passed, so lots of emotion tied up in addition to loving her). she wont be away from her dog for more than 6 hours so our visits are short. there isn't animosity from her because i don't allow her dog over; she respects it is my house and would upset my animals. just like i don't insist on bringing my cats or rabbit to her house and i have to be home by dark to take care of them. we respect each other and the others home rules. it's not being insensitive to dogs or anti-dogs; its caring about my animals and their comfort.   
 could you foster her through the shelter while they look for a home?  it doesn't sound like your boy is miserable. i would try to make it work with both cats, and help him to adjust more.  
 if she isn't trying to attack him, he will probably get over it. well, improve a great deal at least -- may always growl if she gets too close but the high stress should fade. if she is trying to attack him thats different, its reasonable to try and find a new home.  but if you really don't want this cat, can't you hit your social media before you think about shelter vs release? your right, a very friendly sweet cat should be adoptable.   also, how about indoor/outdoor? that helps a ton with this type of problem.  
 sounds like the relationship between my two in the beginning. 10 years and 2 mobths...huge difference! for the first couple of days you could tell that old sir was just 'what the heck did you bring into my house' and all she wanted to do was play with him!! he would hide on top of tables and chairs to get away from her.  and then all of a sudden maybe two days into their rocky relationship the (80 lb) dog decided to harass the kitten...and this old cat, that you wouldn't even think liked the kitten, parked himself between them and made the dog back down. wouldn't even let her raise her head off of her paws to look at reese. it still took him a moment longer to allow reese to actually play with him, but now they're the absolute best friends. they sleep together, watch birds together, run around the house after each other...  you gotta remember that all of this is brand new for your boy. he's an only cat! he's lived a solitary life! what is that thing clinging to his tail? he didn't ask for this! this is a big change for him.  as long as there is no aggression, just hiding from the kitten, he should come out okay in the end. and if he does swat at your girl, that's okay too. she has to learn her place with him. kittens don't come with manners pre installed.   
 sounds like you have made up your mind that the kitten must go. i would do so as soon as possible if you have not yet so that she is more adoptable as a youngster! good luck  
 please don’t put her back outside. she is now used to an indoor life and being left all on her own may be terrifying. she may be begging at your door to be let in and then what are you going to do? try shelters, try craig’s list, try your vet, but try to find her someone who can care for her.  
 i'm not going to put her back outside, i saved her from that life,i keep posting for her adoption,and will wait to find her a home  
 hi all,  i got my resident cat into the vet asap as sometimes i think it's hard to tell when cats are in pain/depressed/stressed out. they are moody creatures, well, at least my resident cat is.   the vet said he did not have a blockage and could tell that his bladder was empty by feeling. he did say that he believed my cat might have an infection or even simply bladder disease. he also hypothesized that it could very well be a stress response. i know when we first got him we took him to the vet and he had to be medicated as he had a fever and his gums appeared swollen. he was tested for both fiv and felv and both came back negative. he was given antibiotics and a steroid injection and that seemed to help. he had a recurrence of this and we had to take him back for a second round of injections but hadn't had further issues since. i am a little concerned about all this because for about 2 months or so now he's had diarrhea on and off. the vet wasn't sure if all of these symptoms may be tied together through stress/immune disease/infection, but he did recommend we start treatment conservatively with an antibiotic shot to see if things improve. he also recommended feliway plug ins to help with my cats anxiety (perhaps to ease the transition with the new kitten coming into the house?). i'm a little reserved about using feliway plugins as i've heard that they don't really work? i know i've tried calming sprays for him before for car rides, but with no success. the primary things i've tried to combat his anxiety is to give him lots of scratching posts, cat towers, and comfortable places to look out the window that are basically just "his" so that he feels more confident, but i guess the kitten has sort of impeded on that territory.   as far as him and the new kitten goes, i've taken a different approach to trying to get them to get along. i know a lot of people and behaviorist recommend just letting the cats work it out, but i think my resident cat doesn't know how to stand up to/discipline/diffuse with the kitten, so i've started stepping in more. whenever the kitten continuously pounces on my cat and my cat has given him a warning and walked away, i'll take the kitten away from him and re-direct the kitten with a toy. my cat seemed more content last night than he's been in awhile so i assume maybe he just needs some assistance in learning how to be more assertive with the kitten when he doesn't want to engage/play because although my cat has previously been housed with other cats, i believe, this is his first time being around a kitten as an adult cat, so maybe there is a bit of a learning curve for both of us? my kitten doesn't really seem to be negatively affected by me keeping him from constantly trying to play with my resident cat and seems happy enough when i distract him with a toy so i suppose this isn't doing any harm between the two.   anyways, sorry for the long post, but i guess my question now is, is limiting the kitten's play interaction with my resident cat bad? will this negatively affect their relationship or the kitten's disposition as an adult? would feliway help in this situation?  
 also, you said he was acting put off by the kitten and was earlier being short tempered with you. he may be acting this way from whatever is going on that's causing him discomfort when peeing. since he's played with the kitten a few times makes me think he doesn't hate him but is probably a typical adult cat that finds this kitten annoying sometimes, and on top of not feeling well, etc. good on @pinksox for stepping in and defending the adult, and i'm throwing in a high five for recognizing the yowling in the box means something is wrong.  how old is the kitten now?   
 music to use would be classical harp music, there's an app called relax my cat, there's also musicforcats.com  here are some calming products;  richard's organics pet calm-those are drops that you put on the tip of their tongue. quiet moments cat treats, there is calming care, calm-o-mile, sentry, natures miracle calming spray, vetri-science's composure is another item to look at, pet remedy (it has valerian) is yet another, as is essential pet pet-ease, only natural pet (brand and website) has a calming product, pet naturals also has one i believe. also thunderease has diffusers as does sentry. you might want to check with your vet, but some people have good results with cbd oil. lambert vet supply is a website to look at, and of course chewy, also there's petwishpros, drsfostersmith, animaleo.  calming treats for a very picky cat  
 i can understand the time constraints. @furballsmom gave some really great tips. try those. maybe you can pick up the other cat instead of the aggressive one but make sure it doesn’t appear to the aggressive one that you are pampering that one but rather removing him. it is a juggling act i know but maybe the calming products will work or even a combination of ideas. let us know!  
 i currently have a 12 year old senior cat. she has been an only cat her entire life. my husband would like to get a kitten. is it a good idea to introduce another cat at this stage of her life?  
 my new kitten, luna, who is 3 mo old, just won’t stop crying whenever i’m not around. if i close the bedroom door to get some sleep, she’ll cry outside the door for about 15 min every 2 hours or so. she’ll also cry outside the door if i try to use the restroom or any other door. what should i do? she has plenty of toys and full access to the rest of the house. is this normal for kittens?  
 hi! let me ask first, is she getting all the food she can eat?  without any feline siblings, you've become her sibling replacement   can you give her a warm nest, with maybe even a heating pad set on low with a couple of towels over it so it doesn't get too hot. sometimes a sock partly filled with dry rice and gently heated in the microwave can work for a change of pace, for her to snuggle with.  also, provide her with a ticking clock. (if the clock is too loud you can muffle it a little by wrapping a cloth or towel around it). this helps to seem like another beating heart.  
 not sure if there'll be anything helpful in it or not, but here's the tcs article on how to keep cats off counters and tables  also a couple others: how to set healthy boundaries for your cat cats and discipline don't mix  
  i certainly don't want to go against the advise of your vet but it's possible that the dry food isn't satisfying your cat's appetite the way wet food would. you might want to consider feeding more wet rather than dry? i feed my cats two servings of wet food a day with a serving of dry during the day while i'm at work. it will also help to add moisture to your cat's diet which is important because cats tend to have a low thirst drive.  i also had to "baby proof" my cabinets. mizu just likes closed spaces (closets, my desk drawer, kitchen cabinets) and she figured out how to open them and just hang out inside. we purchased something similar to this to prevent her from opening the cabinets. my sons are grown and there was no way i was going back to latched cabinets!     
 i would try those air canisters that are motion activated. i would keep the baby locks though  many pet owners need them. after a bottle baby that stole food out of the pan  i was a very strict pet guardian with my boys. i never gave them people food and used penny cans if i saw them on the counters. so my boys never got into begging or stealing food. if i give them people food on very rare occasions it is on their plates on their food mat.  petsafe ssscat spray pet deterrent, motion activated pet proofing repellent for cats and dogs   have you tried feeding him more? our semi-feral has hollow legs. he eats twice as much as my indoor boys. he runs around the neighborhood so i guess he burns more calories? i free feed my boys. they are 12 years (at 12.5 pounds) and 13 years (at 12 pounds.) if i was worried about my cat's weight i would commit to a healthy wet food only diet or free feed low calorie food (a high quality one.) i just stopped giving my boys treats most days and they each lost half a pound over the last year. *i have seen jackson galaxy recommend raw food diets, especially for overweight cats. however i have no experience with raw food so i can not say if it is good or not.  
 hi! my suggestion would be to cut back on the kibble, and greatly increase the amount of canned. also, let him have food available overnight. you can leave wet food out for several hours, or use a dish setup that has an ice pack underneath the upper dish. he needs less carby (carbohydrates) food and instead more protein.  try more frequent meals, maybe a little less amount for each. he's working awfully hard to get more food. --the bag directions aren't all that viable, and some vets are to the point of paranoia that a cat will become obese.  try adding probiotics, tummyworks is just one example, it'll help his digestive system get everything out of his food.  increase his activity, if he's not in actuality truly hungry, he's bored, but i think some of both. try an exercise wheel, play with him more, and does he have scratchers and cat trees?  7 proven ways to get your cat to be more active  a little wood putty and stain or paint should take care of things once your baby's food issues are squared away.  by the way, a penny can, referred to above, is a metal can half full of coins. when bad behavior starts, a good hard shake of the can can help stop things   
 i love wiggly kitties lol. he sounds like he's so full of personality, i'm glad he has you!  
 hi! try a hiss, just like his mama would do, to teach him about unwanted behavior. it may take more than once, but persevere. let us know how things go   
 take it from me. i'm a specialist in this area.  just keep at it with the "no". immediately stop when he acts that way. timeouts, etc. just keep at it with what you are doing. and don't toss him away when he pounces you. you're not going to hurt him that way, but, he'll take that as an invite to play rougher.  it'll basically be like a game of paddle ball and he's now the ball connected to the paddle with a rubber band. he jumps your ankle, you toss him away, and boing he's right back latched onto you again. to him, that's game on!!  
 i can't believe gibsy would ever play rough, he looks such an angel.    
 do you have scheduled playtimes for him that involve lots of running around to tire him out? if he knows that he will be getting attention from you at particular times of day, he may be less likely to pounce on you at other times. making sure that he's running around a lot will also help tire him out. you mention fishing toys, which are great. laser pointers can also help with this. does he have lots of things to climb, or a window to look out of? these can also be useful outlets for energetic cats.  while ignoring him when he plays rough may eventually work, expecting 'time out' to teach him that pouncing is 'bad' doesn't seem likely to work, since cats don't really respond to punishment. if ignoring him doesn't work, you could try redirecting him to appropriate play with a wand.  there are lots of episodes of jackson galaxy that deal with inappropriate pouncing/biting/scratching, and they may be helpful for you.  
 so does he wag his tail as per a dog? oliver waves his tail almost all the time but it's a cat tail wag.   
 hello and welcome to tcs. i've never had more than 1 cat at a time, so i'm not experienced with cat introductions, but something that is often mentioned, is if there's no blood or fur flying, it's probably not too bad.  is getting another kitten an option? that is another recommendation when the age difference between the resident cat and newcomer is quite large. it then works so that the kitten has someone else to play with and doesn't have to keep bothering the older cat.   here's a couple tcs articles on cat introductions that might be helpful: how to fix an unsuccessful cat introduction how to introduce a kitten to an older cat the multi-cat household  
 purebred cats are not selectively bred for catching mice... hunting and catching prey is also a learned skill for cats. you would be better off looking for a rescued or even formerly feral kitty that may have had some experience hunting prey in the past.  
 if you have a mouse / pest problem, you should hire a professional to deal with the issue not get a cat. many house cats have no clue what to do with a live mouse. some may bring it to you still alive. others may kill a mouse but not eat it, leaving the dead mouse to decompose and stink up your home until you locate it and dispose of it.  
 thanks for the advice  need to think again about cat.   
 feral cats placed as barn cats or "working cats" have been reported to be effective in pest control, and (perhaps more important) these placements can provide good homes for feral cats that are otherwise difficult to place. however, these cats aren't necessarily good house pets.  
 my crew are pretty apt hunters. they don't always eat their kills but the only mouse problem we have is with the mice nightfury brings in for rocket. although they usually don't last long once she gets them in her sight.   i'd agree with the above that getting a former feral or barn cat would be the best. one who was raised outside is essentially the requirement. my girl has unending patience and much more of hunter; she was outside for her first four months. but feral and former barn cats do take work to be good pets.   if you are looking for an outdoor cat, ask around for a feral rehoming program. ferals can make great mousers for outdoors with minimal care requirements; food and medical care if needed. if you're looking for an indoor cat, try for a rescue who was a street cat orlookfor someone with a litter of barn kittens. if you are more a dog person some dogs are good for mice. if you have a pest problem and don't really want a pet, call pest control.  
 only get a cat if you want a cat. otherwise use traps or call an exterminator. it's not good for a cat to live with someone who doesn't really want them.   if you do want a cat. . .i don't know how to determine if a cat is a good mouser. my best mouser showed up as a kitten, very friendly, and has been indoors ever since. i don't know how she was raised but shes tame and friendly so probably not feral. maybe a farm cat, idk. but she's the best. she'll never give up until she catches it and she makes clean kills. some of the others will catch a mouse if they feel like it, and some of the others will just ignore mice. perhaps running a string for the cat to chase will give you a good idea of how much prey drive they have. look for a kitty who seems to be very driven to catch the string.  
 hi. i agree with @furballsmom, more than likely after a period of time following his neutering he should 'calm down' some. and, they may have an adjustment period between the two of them beyond that. but, odds are if they got along before, they will get along again.   
 anyone that has kitten siblings, how much play fighting is too much? my 2 go at each other especially when if one is trying to settle down?  
 when it comes to kittens, they tend to play until they fall over asleep, wake, eat, play, sleep.... it's a never ending cycle of fluffy madness. i generally allow the kittens to go wild and they are fairly good at regulating. just like with children, there will be misunderstanding but they will sort it out and it is important to let them sort it out. as long as there is no blood or fur, they are fine. just give some hiding spots, high spots and places so that one can get away and hide if it is so inclinded.   the only rule i've ever had when it comes to play is no play when it is human bedtime. my guys know that once i am in bed they can go elsewhere or sleep in the room with me. i immediately stop any play on my bed when i am laying down too. it's a habit which has led to my now adult cats settling in and sleeping through the night.  
 hello and welcome to tcs. thank you for taking in the stray and her kittens. sorry she isn't yet getting along with your other female cat. i was about to suggest doing a re-introduction, but just reread your post and see that's what you plan to do. hopefully that will help.   you may have read these, but i'll post links to some tcs articles on cat introductions which may have some tips for you.  how to fix an unsuccessful cat introduction how to successfully introduce cats: the ultimate guide introducing cats to cats the multi-cat household how to safely break up a cat fight    
 i think first and foremost you need to remain calm. if you are tense she will react to it.   second it isn't attitude, she is telling you she is afraid.   third i would get her groomed professionally to  
 sorry kitten interuption.  i would ask the groomer to cut her fur so it is less likely to get poo caught in it. i would also try different litters to see if one kind works better than others (ask the groomer what they know.)  lastly i would buy cat wet wipes /bath wipes to spot clean poo accidents without the scary running water.  *i don't have a long haired cat but whenever i annoy my cats with brushing/pill/nail clippings/ even a bath.... i offer them a treat and say "all done." it works great to tell them it is safe, whether they want the treat or not. plus a yummy reward afterwards makes doing those necessary evils easier. in time she will become accomated to being bribed & put up with her grooming easier.  
 i will try the groomers. i do have wipes and she won’t let me clean her. when i try she bites and will hiss and run away.  
 oh. yes, 5starcathotel, i love this video because it reminded me of one of the last really naughty things from murphy, aka my drop and break cat. she was maybe 15 at the time and way slowed down but one annoying habit was she loved to knock my bottle of water off the night table on almost a nightly basis. i was tired of cleaning up spilled water, so i bought a heavy and expensive piece of handmade pottery that would hold a water bottle perfectly and be too heavy for her to knock over. it was, and i won, but only temporarily. i go into the bedroom a few days after buying it just in time to see murphy nudging the holder, with bottle inside, off the edge of the table with her forehead! murphy is long gone but i still have the pottery bottle holder, split down the middle from its fall and glued back together.  
  aaaaaaaaaaahahahahahahahahaha made me laugh out loud!!!!     
  mizzy who is just 7mths has found out she can jump.. climb.. these are cabinets that area above the oven and fridge. she won't stop jumping up there. i've covered the fridge with stuff. she then bangs open a cabinet door and jumps ho that way. i've tried redirecting and spraying (which i know is bad), but she keeps doin it. any helpful ideas???  
 i think you might need to do a combination of things that you’re doing already- continue using the spray and the tape, but move her scratchers closer to the couch. put some catnip on the scratcher and play with her around it to make it more interesting. when she starts to scratch the couch, redirect her attention toward the scratcher. when she scratches the scratcher instead of the couch, reward her with a treat. you may need to try different kinds of scratchers (cardboard and sisal rope surfaces in the vertical, incline, and horizontal positions). this article has some great pointers: how to stop your cat from scratching the furniture  if behavior modification doesn’t work, you can use nail caps- like the ones from soft paws.  
 co signed with abyeb. try to buy a scratcher that has the same material or very similar to one that is your couch made of.  
 i have tried the low front litter boxes, but she still wont get in all the way. even the extra large ones. shell get in, stop right at the edge, and pee over the side   
 earlier today, when i was cleaning terra’s litter box, the pan cracked. time for a new litter box, it seems. terra has used this litter box ever since she was a baby kitten. are there any potential issues i should be aware of when replacing the litter box? if so, what can i do about them?  the litter box i am replacing had a grated bottom and two outer layers, making it a snap to clean. do you guys have any recommendations for a replacement litter box that is quick and easy to clean?  
 i would transfer some clean but used litter to the new box and she should be fine. if not, wash the box with whatever cleaner you used on her old box. as far as boxes go, i line mine with a puppy pad which i switch out once a week. since the bottom of the box stays dry, no cleaning is necessary, clumps don’t stick to the corners and they are very durable. willow will scratch through the paper part of the liner but has never gone through the bottom plastic.  
 that would make sense, but he actually usually has a full plate of food lol. we let him free eat his dry food, and we feed him three times a day his wet food. he recently went through a picky phase and stopped eating every food except for one type we found he will eat. but he lately is more interested in playing than eating, he eats a few bites then is ready to play. his play times are centered around his feeding schedule, so maybe that’s a habit i need to break?   
 i definitely need to get better at asserting myself as boss! lol i’m tiny and have a high pitched voice, i don’t think he takes me seriously! lol   
   here’s the little booger!  
 when mine gets that way, i just walk off. or throw a small blanket on him, covering him up. the blanket thing actually works really well if you can't completely get away from him.  
 suggestions to burn his energy:   get another cat. this will benefit him in very many ways and will benefit you too because you don't need to worry about playing so often. feeder balls/feeding toys/feeding puzzles electronic cat toys play more cat tv: does he have a window perch? can he look outside at birds and other things? even just videos on youtube labeled "videos for cats to watch" will stimulate his brain clicker training; good for his brain and for the relationship between you and your cat furthermore yeah he's still a kitten and maine coons are slower to mature, so be patient with him and try your best for at least the upcoming year to entertain him. because you're definitely right, boredom can lead to behavioral issues.  
 that's not too bad so long as the kittens aren't shedding.    
 hi this is sorta long but here goes i’ve had a cat for about 8 years, and i’ve had her since birth. she tends to get very stressed when i go away for long as she has bonded to me. however, approximately 2 months ago i got another kitten. last month i moved away from home with the kitten as i was unable to bring my older cat with me at first. i brought my cat to my new home yesterday and she has been hiding under the bed and aggressively growling at not only he kitten but me too, even hissing. my cat has never had any aggression problems before, she’s always been an extremely sweet cat and has never done any of this before. my kitten is a bit of a bully however and tends to stare at her and hiss where she’s hiding and block her from her litter box and my older cat has been under the bed just constantly growling. please help as i really do not know what to do  
 it is just kind of an emotional reaction to being so happy to see you. he sounds like a stray that would be more than happy to become your housecat.  
 my boy cat does this sometimes too. i think he's playing.  
 yes, of course you can let her stay in that room as it is her safe room and she'll feel safe in there.   either you can have a baby gate at the door so that she can see and hear what's going on out here and observe. if at any time she's afraid, she have a safe place to retreat to quickly.   on the other hand, if she can be kept behind closed door without making noise or scratching the door, then it's ok to leave her in a closed room. just check on her every now and then and talk to her and hug her.  at very most she'll be at the door peering and smelling from the gap beneath the door.   turn on some classical music for her.  
 thank you! her big litter box is on the main floor in the laundry room, i have an extra one (small one) which she doesn't use, so i'm thinking to put that one in my bathroom ( in my room) just so she has access to a litter box without having to go downstairs if she didn't want too.. my question is, should i just put in my bathroom with clean litter ( same litter she uses every day) or should i put some of the litter from her every day box? would she figure it out even though it's in a different place and different box? can i do things the same day of the party? sorry for asking so many questions but i want to keep her as comfortable as i can and give her another option if she doesn't want to go downstairs and be around otheres. thank you so much!! i really appreciate your advice   
 thank you so much! i really appreciate your advice .  
 is she an indoor only cat? or indoor/outdoor? if indoor only, i would consider keeping her locked in your room during the party. with all those people, there is a chance of her getting startled, and running out the door, and no one noticing.   if she has food, water, litter box and toys, she would be fine for a few hours. and you can always pop in to check on her.  
 hello, all. my seven month old kitten chowder has recently taken a liking to my hair. i have found several small bundles of hair around my pillow upon waking up in the morning and to avoid losing any more, i am not letting her in the bedroom at night. i find that she will bite/chew on the ends of my hair when she is acting playful and also when she is sleepy/affectionate.  i adopted her with a littermate and we play often, so i'm not concerned about her being bored. she does have a habit of suckling on herself, which i think is a comfort thing. i am wondering if the two behaviors are related. other than that, though, she doesn't have a habit of chewing on objects (although i have found a few turn hairbands in the past) and doesn't eat anything she is not supposed to.  anybody know what this may stem from and how i can properly handle it?  
 aw, that's kind of nice.  it has helped in the sense that she can't chew off my hair when i am asleep, but she definitely still tries randomly during the daytime. i suppose all i can do is attempt to redirect her attention.   
 this is incredibly helpful! thank you so much.   
 do you think it's worth it to have two plates for two cats when feeding? i normally put their raw food on a flat plate for breakfast, and then again at night for dinner. they both usually finish in 20 minutes. sometimes they'll both go for the plate, although usually only if they're really hungry or there's something special on it. but usually another cat will watch until the other is finished before going for the food.  i just wonder if it's worth getting two plates since even if i get two plates, one cat may try to go for both, or one cat may just wait till the other is done before going for it.  thoughts?  
 i have three cats. i use two plates for their dry food because they don't seem so eager to go for that, but i use three bowls for there wet food because all three will often eat the wet food at the same time.  and its a bit of a dance to get all three bowls down. i can usually steer two of them to a bowl and then the third one figures out that there is another bowl. and then they start playing musical chairs and swapping who eats from which bowl. they don't seem to push each other out of the way (they might, but none of them are too fat or skinny so i let them be and work it out amongst themselves)  
 i use one feeder for dry food because my guys free feed that. it's rare that more then one wants to eat at the same moment and they are pretty good about waiting. we've even had a little line form before on the rare occasion all three want to eat at the same time.   for wet food though, i use a dish per cat. in your case, i'd use a dish per pet too. that way you can make sure each cat is getting the proper portion and there is no anxiety over food. while you haven't had problems with your two now there could be issues down the line or if you add another furball into the household.  
 my cats get separate plates because i measure how much they each eat.  
 mine two seem to have their weight consistent. although i worry about two plates since wouldn't you have to watch one of them at all times to make sure they don't steal from another plate?   
 i plan for the one who does steal by putting a little extra in the other two bowls to compensate. i watch just until link is done eating because he is the one who will be pushed out of his bowl the easiest. rocket prefers to lick her own bowl clean, thank you very much. even then, if nightfury has food left in his bowl, link usually just switches to his. i am not super strict on portions obviously; but i would notice if someone ate significantly less or more.   
 before we begin i have no intentions of keeping this one...just going to foster it until i can find some one to take it.....i have raised and kept two strays already. but now my other cats will not come through the living room to the kitchen to eat! anyone know if this is normal or what....they act like they are scared to death....!  
 hi! have you had a chance to get the new one to a vet? can you feed your other kitties elsewhere since they're so bothered with this one?  
 this one is not going to a vet as i do not plan on keeping it no way! we have four already and the wife is fuming mad i brought this one home.   
 i understand, --i'm sending tons of good thoughts that she gets better as soon as possible! ...and if you need to, maybe you can feed your other kitties elsewhere for a little bit so they don't get more upset about the newbie...  
 oh, good, that's good to hear - hopefully everyone calms down. you could try playing some music - classical harp music might even help your wife to feel a little better, and there's an app called relax my cat, there's also musicforcats.com try this as an example (i tried to copy just the video but ended up having to copy the post with the video embedded); aggressive resident - it just got real. no idea how to help him.   
 i just hate having to keep the little thing locked up but its got to be done i guess for his safety and the safety of my other cats.  
 hi friends,  i would first like to start off by saying i am so happy i found this site. reading the threads has helped me so much already! i am going to give a lot of detail in my adoption story, if you don’t want to read it all please find the tl;dr version at the bottom  i am a brand new cat mom. i bought a beautiful 4 year old ragdoll from her previous owner a week ago (october 9th). the previous owner admitted that she could no longer care for her since giving birth to her newborn baby, and that the cat has not had much attention and was not socialized very much for the past few months. the cat was declawed by her previous owner a few years back (terrible, i know).  i met the cat and fell in love. she was very curious, expressive, and beautiful. i took her that day, put her in a carrier, and drove 2 hours back to my condo. she was clearly terrified, since she meowed constantly the entire car ride and pooped in the carrier as well. i have a roommate, but my roommate happened to be away from home last week, so i went and got the cat alone.  the cat immediately hid after i let her out of the carrier, which is expected. during the first few days, any time she saw me she would hiss, growl, and groan extremely loud. which again, i expected.  i got her on tuesday and by thursday night she had already began coming out of hiding and exploring while i was asleep. friday, i came home from work and saw that she finally ate her food, drank water, and used the litterbox while i was away! i was ecstatic, since this was the first time she did any of those things while being in her new home.  later in the evening on friday, my roommate returned home after being away for the week. i warned her that the cat will likely be hiding and she may not be able to meet the cat yet. to my disbelief, once my room mate came home the cat came out into the livingroom in plain sight. since friday, she has been a very social cat. she occasionally still hides in my room, but when me and my room mate are watching tv in the evening, she clearly wants to be around us and often sits on the couch with us.  i am very happy my new cat is getting comfortable. she did not take much time at all, not nearly what i was expecting. but my issue is… the cat is absolutely in love with my room mate but she still hasn’t warmed up to me yet (a huge understatement… she hates me!). the cat follows my room mate around, is always trying to get into her room, and always trying to get my room mates attention for scratches and rubs. my roommate has never had any kind of pet, so she is a little scared of the unpredictability of the cat. for that reason, my room mate does not allow the cat into her room when she is sleeping. if it were my cat’s choice, i know she would love to live in my room mates room and not come out.  if i am alone in the condo, the cat is usually hiding. occasionally if i walk by her (not paying attention to her, just walking by!), the cat still hisses. she has never hissed or growled at anyone except for me, and she still does it to this day. i have had a few friends/family members over since i’ve had the cat and she always goes up to strangers and meows to say hello. it seems like the cat is very sweet and social, except to me!  at first, i thought she may just be scared of me, since i was the one who took her from her previous owner and drove her to my condo. i was also alone with her in the condo when she was going through her terrified hissy/growly phase the first few days of living in her new home. but now i am not so sure. she sleeps in the same bed as me (completely under the covers to stay hidden though, and she still hisses at me if i look at her), she sits on the couch beside me, and eats in front of me. if the cat was scared of me, wouldn’t she not be doing these things and avoiding me all together?  could it be possible the cat just doesn’t like me? am i doing something wrong? the cat only lets me pet her for not even a minute, she seems very receptive and meows and wiggles around and exposes her belly… but then she hisses and swats… am i petting her wrong since she lets other people pet her for longer? i usually have sweaty hands, could that be why she doesn’t like my pets?  i’ve already told my roommate to not give her any treats or food, so i am the only person feeding her, giving her treats, playing with her (she doesn’t really play… could i be scaring her when i try to play with her maybe?), cleaning her litterbox, changing her water, etc.  i am so sad to say this but if the cat does not warm up to me i don’t think i want to keep her. i have had dogs all my life and all my dogs absolutely adored me. i realize owning a cat is very different, but it is really affecting my morale to watch my cat let my room mate pet her for 15-20 minutes at a time, then look over at me and hiss! it is making me extremely depressed.  if she acted the same towards everyone else i would feel much better, but the fact that she’s a sweetheart to everyone except for me is negatively affecting my mood. i have already cried about it more times than i wish to admit. do you think she just needs more time, or is there just something about me that she decided she does not like?  tl;dr - my new 4-year old declawed ragdoll cat loves getting affection and attention from my roommate and strangers. however she still does not let me pet her and hisses at me any time i get near her, even if i am not looking at her and i just need to walk by to get something. i have had her for just over a week and i know cats need time to get used to a new environment, but why is it that shes comfortable with everyone except for me? can i change this behavior, or do i need to decide if i need to accept a cat who hates me but loves everyone else or try to rehome her?  thank you for your advice!  
 that is odd. noisy shoes? does she hiss/growl every time you walk by or certain places or times? can you bring something from her previous owner or a certain way she liked to be handled/patted??  
 very helpful article   
 it very well may be that your cat is afraid of you because she associates you with the scary car ride in carrier and coming into a new place. it doesn’t mean that she hates you. ignore the hissing and talk softly to her without making eye contact. don’t make an attempt to touch her until she is ready to come to you. this might take a week or it might take months but she has shown with your roommate that she is a social cat that enjoys human contact. she will start to trust you and give you affection if you are patient.  
 i don’t wear shoes but sometimes my feet are sweaty and can make noise against the hardwood? i’ll try socks   
 i agree with all the previous advice ... and i’ll just add that cats are very different from dogs in the ways they interact. someone nervous to be near pets and probably not seeking the cat’s attention is being very polite. someone ignoring boundaries and going up to the cat to pet it is being aggressive and scary. also, going off into a secret room of hidden wonders may be intriguing you new kitty as well.   the best way to interact with a new cat that’s unsure about you is ignoring until approached. if you ever see a cat meeting a new person, very often the cat starts sniffing the hand tentatively, hesitating. if she decides it’s safe, usually there is a cheek rub on the hand. i wouldn’t try petting her until you get the “cheek rub” green light.   also, when you pet her keep in mind where, how often, and how repetetive. most cats dislike belly rubs, and exposing a belly is a sign of trust but not an invitation to touch. safest for most cats is to pet only around the head until you know what she likes. pay attention to ears and tail - most cats start to swish their tail around when they are getting annoyed which is when you should stop. ears that are going back towards the skull are also unsure or frightened.   hopefully this helps ... i don’t think she hates you or is a lost cause, i think she is scared and may be picking up on your stress and frustration that you haven’t bonded yet. in time you two will get to know each other and hopefully become fast friends.  
 my cat maggie seems to want to spend time with me when i'm doing a project and not focusing on her. she tends to come over on her own and try to "help" me.   
 thank you both very much! really interesting advices, i will try these for sure! and thank you for your kind words.   
 typos galore! sorry! lol. "start to integrate my cats and have them meet"  
 if they are playing through the door then they are aware of each other and seem to be ok with it. i think it is time to put up a baby grate in the door and let them have face to face time!  
 i can't wait to see them chill together  they both have the same energy, i hope they eventually wear each other out with playing.  
 oh they should be fine together then. i would go for it! just let them be together for the day on your next day off. remember that growling and hissing are ok and you need to let it happen. if they start just watch them closely to see if it is just one being vocal to the other or both are being vocal to each other. this is just mainly for your own benefit. if it escalates separate them again for a bit. but don't freak out if they "talk" to each other like that. this is how cats communicate and i almost worry more if there is no vocalizations lol.  
 so i have had my cat kiki for a good 3 years now. when encountering stray cats through the patio door and never once reacted even while the others hissed and puffed up and even attacked the glass. since we have to leave her home alone a lot, we decided to get another cat. problem is, this new one was too young to take home but the owner of the mom wanted them gone asap. she was already eating solid food and such so we took her. she was only 5 weeks.   hally, our new kitten, is now 7 weeks. we have been doing slow integration between our cats. hally couldnt care less about kiki but with kiki it started off with hissing, growling and running away. now we are at the point that kiki does not hiss and just watches as i sit on the couch with the kitten.   i always make sure kiki know she is loved and pet her or play with her while i have hally out on my lap. but kiki never approaches while i have her. if hally gets away from me kiki goes full attack mode and hisses and darts for her. not making that mistake again. anyway, this morning kiki was on her tower next to the couch and i was petting her while playing with hally.   then kiki got closer, eyes huge and on hally. then she moved down onto the couch behind hally while my hand was still covering half of hally and leaped for her rear end. i freaked out and blocked her... but i'm wondering... was she trying to play with hally or sneak attack her? there was no hissing and i didn't look closely enough for claws.   what should my next steps be?  they are separated unless me or my husband is holding the kitten and petting, feeding or playing with kiki.  
 it sounds like kiki's curiosity is starting to outweigh her fear. try putting hally in a carrier in the floor so they can get a safe up close sniff.  
 you blocked her pounce with your hand. did she land/hit your hand? if so and you weren't bleeding, she didn't use her claws. if she didn't use her claws it wasn't because she had time in mid-pounce to notice your hand was in the way. ( i have several scars to prove that once the target is sighted the focus is locked and nothing else is seen. just saying.)  i don't mean this in a snarky way, in the shock of the moment and for a good stretch of time afterward, it's difficult to think of these things.  
 so i tried the carrier yesterday and it was like kiki hated it more than hally being in my lap. she wouldn't stop hissing at it and refused to go near it. so... this morning i was playing with kiki with a string toy while hally was in my lap, then after kiki was chill i carefully turned hally around and let kiki come up and smell her. she hissed and backed off but it wasn't threatening. just fear. kiki came up to sniff and do that 2 more times before i had to leave for work. hopefully this is progress. again, hally didnt care.   
 good progress! two weeks isn't near enough time for them to be comfortable with each other, kittens are usually more easily accepted then grown cats, but your kiki will instinctively correct her manners as all females do. kittens are uninhibited and move way too fast for most adults to take. so it will be a while before poor kiki gets used to all the commotion and changes in her world. hissing, swatting and growling are normal. attacks that draw blood are not. kiki may even pin the kitten to the ground, just carefully observe so she is not being hurtful. kittens always squeal and sound like they are being hurt, even with each other. as long as she squeals, but then comes back for more play, she is alright. if she runs and hides and avoids kiki, then it is not play. make sure kiki has an escape perch high up, it will keep her from feeling cornered. a cat tree would be good, my chrissy spent months in a bed on top the fridge.  
 wow, that's a serious cat tree  what fun   
 i like to place cat trees where kitties can we not the outdoors when resting in them.  
 ty everyone. i want you all to know i’m busy at school, work, and clinical. so my place isn’t the cleanest! i am aware i’m opening myself up for judgment and ridicule.  ‘bring it on’  the bedroom will eventually have a king size bean bag fyi  the living room has been taken apart for cleaning before i decorate. the furniture in the living area can be arranged any way. i am looking for ideas how to arrange my living room as well.  ok it’s a little hard to follow. the vacuum is the bedroom.   the dining area leds to the living room area with the rug and boxes.  
 all my furniture is 'cat furniture'....  
 oh, nice! they are going to have some fun climbing up that for sure.   
 hooray for the ceiling attachment!! that's a fantastic idea.  
 so i don’t know what to do the ceiling is too tall. the seller said a diy wooden block would work .  i’m trying to find s handy man  
 i have the same problem! got mine 2 months ago and she was super affectionate and would want to cuddle up against me but doesnt even lay in bed with me anymore (i dont blame her since i got her a really sweet cat bed)! sometimes she’ll decide to swat at me and i don’t know what to do in those situations...i’ve posted about it before but didn’t get too many super helpful answers except letting her cool down a bit  
 i think he likes you. my cat also does a lot of the things you described. they say a cat won't expose its belly to you if it doesn't trust you, so i think he definitely trusts you too of he's doing that. as far as if he wants attention when doing it can be hard to judge. when my cat does it sometimes he'll be cool with a few pets and sometimes he'll he'll kind of grab my arm and do a few bunny kicks and get frisky and want to play. chewing your hair sounds like he's maybe trying to groom you which is a sign of affection.  
 i have the same problem at the moment! just got home after spending the night at my dad's house, and my cat is super spooked by something. she usually greets me at the door (especially when she hasn't had something to eat yet!) but as soon as i got home she ran into my mum's room and hid in her closet. not even her food has calmed her down. i'm interested to hear any responses to your questions because it may help me too   
 i've caught our 7mth old kitty starring at my cork board quite a few times. should i be worried?   
 hmmm... corkboard? maybe he's trying to figure out a way to climb it. or sharpen his claws.  or like @tabbytom suggested, maybe he saw a bug there once, and keeps thinking he'll see it again.  
 maybe he just wants to play. my kitty does that with the wall, staring up at it cos she wants me to 'wave' a feather on the wall and then jump up at it.  
 no need to worry.   we had a female cat that loved to chase a laser pointer dot on the wall at dinner time. she would come and sit in front of the wall and stare at it. if i was tardy in starting the game, she would paw at the wall....and magically a red dot would appear and the games would begin!   
 have you spoken to your vet? sometimes medical issues can be the root of aggression. usually, if that is the case, it could be as simple as giving him medication. have you tried calming spray or a calming collar? behavior modification treatment?   this may be helpful. behavioral help for your pet  this may sound strange, but are you ill? sometimes pets can sense illness in a person and will occasionally act aggressively. my tara has pancreatitis. a few days before it starts to act up, one of our other cats will act aggressively towards her. also, my neighbor's husband was diagnosed with liver cancer five years ago. one of their cats behaved differently towards him and would sometimes bite him shortly before the diagnosis. when he had treatments, that particular cat had to be kept away from him. (he was 41 when he died last year.) certainly, i am not saying you have cancer, but if you have some illness, it could possibly cause aggression.  
 is he neutered?  
 i have 3 5 week old kittens and i really need to get them using a litter box. it completely slipped my mind to start training them at 3 weeks or so and now i feel like it’s goinf to be so difficult to train them! they keep peeing on my bed and pooping on my late mom’s blanket. i don’t think they’re too fond of the box. they jump right out of it as soon as they get in there. i’m not sure what to do. help!!!  
 generally litter box training begins at the same time you start giving them solid food. but 5 weeks is still pretty young, so i doubt you're too late. do ensure you have a lot of low sided litter boxes around the house for them so they don't have to go far to find one. and ensure you use non-clumping litter.  and maybe contain them to 1 kitten-proofed room till they get the hang of it. and ensure you wash the bedding with an enzyme cleaner, as it is the only way to totally remove the urine scent.  how to get cat pee smell out of clothes and linens  here's a tcs article with more tips how to train kittens to use the litter box. good luck. let us know how it goes.  and just because kittens are so cute, do post pics of them, if you can.   
 she goes in all the litter boxes to pee so i don’t think the litter is the issue. i think it may be either due to still some discomfort with pooping or just how she started positioning herself when she was extremely uncomfortable. she has not gone in the other litter boxes to poop yet. we did just add potty pads under the litter box to hopefully catch when she misses. i just don’t want it to soak into the hardwood floors especially since we’re renting.  
 both go outside before and after. before they would both hang out with me and now the black and white cat (spock) disappears after meal times. he freaks out if i close the door while he is eating and he hides under the bed. when i took him to the vet i used to capture him after he ate a meal or i would lure him to me with food. now he needs to have "escape routes" to feel comfortable but the moment he finishes eating he darts out the door and disappears. if he hides under the bed then his brother happily finishes his meal for him (he weighs 4 pounds more. it's a frequent problem.)  they come and go as they please for the most part. the tabby hangs out in the yard and i can find him if i look. spock disappears. who knows how far he roams. i rent so i cant do alterations to the yard to install a catio or anything. if i try to keep them inside spock becomes very distressed. he paces, yowls, and makes increasingly desperate attempts to get out, usually finding something made of glass to break in the process. he acts almost like a semi feral cat almost even though he lived exclusively indoors for the first 4 years of his life.       
 he does enjoy being petted. my boyfriend complains about feeling "used" lol. spock comes, demands to be petted, eats dinner, then disappears.   thanks for the advice. i'll try giving him more treats when i see him around the yard and see if that helps. he does try to chase feather teasers but being three legged and all he tends to fall over. i'll keep trying though! poor buddy.  
 slow introductions between cats and other animals usually take days, maybe weeks. definitely not a few minutes or even hours. therefore, if a friend comes to visit, it might be wise to leave their pet at home. because even if you put your cat in another room during the visit, he's going to hear/smell the other animal. and once the strange pet has gone, and your cat is out in the rest of the home, he is going to smell everywhere the other animal was, and rub against everything to leave his scent. he could become aggressive, or even start spraying around the home to mark his territory, which you definitely do not want to happen.  cats are all about smells and territory. we've had members who've had 2 cats that live together and are best friends, and had to take one of the cats to the vet. when the cat came home with the strange vet smell on them, the other cat didn't recognize them any longer, and became aggressive, and had to separate the cats and do re-introductions.  how to deal with non-recognition aggression in cats  it's possible that the rare cat might be less territorial and be more open to other animals, but it doesn't sound like your cat is one of them.   
 time, time and the consistent experience that he isn't attacked will help. okay, he'll think he's attacked at the vet, but the fact that you bring him home to his safe place will make all the difference. some think cats sulk after going to the vet, i think they are just recovering from the stress, not blaming you. at most they think you had an episode of madness, and are now okay.  some day, in the future, maybe a few years from now, another cat will stumble into your lives and your little one will be pleased to see him/her. be patient.   cats aren't like dogs and children, they aren't keen on play dates. my alpha male (fixed) who had decided we didn't need any more cats and was forceful about it, allowed us to rescue and keep a sick stray who was in dire need. they didn't become friends, but my boy didn't attack him, just let him be.  you are doing wonderful things for this little one.  
 glad you found us too.  makhmal is gorgeous.  if you like, you can "formally" introduce him (and yourself) in our new cats on the block forum.  
 have you tried a glove such as delomo fur removal glove from amazon. i use something similar on my cats and they seem to tolerate it.  
 thank you very much for all your replies. i wonder how i had got the wrong notion that cats loved being brushed a notion "confirmed" by my late cat cucumella who did love it. but then cucumella liked to please me. she was exceptional in many ways.  i don't want to let sombra shade her poils all over the place but i will try to find other methods. perhaps using a comb instead of a brush? if so many cats dislike being brushed there must be a good reason for it. after all she does know she will get her treats after the brushing but even then she doesn't accept it gladly. the sensation caused by the brush must not be pleasant for her.  i come from a generation when as children we were obliged to wear and eat what parents decided whether we liked it or not. i never did that to my children. i will try to find a way to deal with sombra's shading without upsetting her so much.  
 honestly, i'd say sombra's reaction is a cat who doesn't mind brushing. i'm thinking the brushing stirs up her nerves, not in a bad way, but like when you lightly stroke your brush over the inside of your forearm. she may run to 'sort the nerves out'. a cat who doesn't like brushing fights it. hissing, swatting, scratching and, on occasion biting.  a comb might be the way to go. they come in different sizes. i wouldn't get the one with the closest set tines, my cats seriously hated that - scratching hiding etc. what they tolerated best was the dog rake. i know, weird. it's a metal comb with wide set tines. i'll go see if i can find one to post.  
 my cats (7 over the years) have never been fond of cat brushes. i started using a round hair brush used for blow-drying my hair. the variation my last 5 cats prefer has plastic bristles with rounded dots on the bristle tips. they are not as fond of natural bristles or brushes with lightweight plastic bristles that have more bristles. this item from target looks a lot like the brush my cats like best. conair copper pro air thermal small round brush i've had my cat brush for some time and i don't recall the brand  
 that's definitely worth a try. our last cat loved a flea comb and would walk over to the drawer where it was kept and meow to be combed. he learned to tolerate the zoom groom for 2-3 minutes once a week and the furminator (actually a comb rather than a brush) a little longer, but adored that flea comb.   
 weird our long haired wee baby kitten hated the toothbrush but likes the rubber brush. a toothbrush is cheap though and sometimes you have to try a lot of brushes before you get the right one.  
 probably the rewarding treats after the brushing sessions have done the trick. now i don't need to hold sombra against her will when brushing her. she lies down and stretches out calmly while i brush her even if she does show her displeasure by waving her tail slowly. when the brushing is over she follows me to the kitchen miauling loudly reclaiming her reward with her tail right up and the tip of it showing her excitement. the next step is playing until i have had enough although she never has enough. she would play non stop all day.  
 don't feel bad. two weeks is not very long so that's good!  do you have a baby gate you can put up at the door before shuge gets a chance to launch herself onto cali. if not, you may want to consider one for now. it might be awkward to put up and down, depending on which way the door swings, but it will help a lot.  cali sounds like she's comfy and ready to explore life with her new peeps! shuge, however, seems a little less ready to make new friends.   i would suggest stepping back for a few days. not letting them see eachother and slowly going again.  have you done the sock / blankets swaps for scent? you take two clean socks, rub one sock gently on calii's face, where the scent glands are and do the same with the other sock on shuge's face. then drop them non-chalantly in each others areas. this gives them a safe way to smell the other cat. after all - cats are alllllll about the smell. *giggles*  you can also, and i don't suggest this for a while to come, but - you can do a site swap too. you take shuge and place him in your room where cali has been and take cali and place her in shuge's area. 5-10 minutes each swap to start. this gives them a safe way to smell each other without either being at risk.  i hope this helps a bit.  let us know how it's going.  
 @jasonmiller139 how are things going?  
 thanks so much for your reply <3. deep down i agree with your statement - she would be such a great companion for elderly person or even somebody home-bound and lonely. she is very gentle kitten, never puts her claws out and is a purring machine. she never "goes into things" and for some reason loves to make an eye contact and holds it for many minutes looking at my face as if she is listening to me or understanding me, same as some puppies do with head tilted on one side. she is special in many ways. extremely intelligent ! and yes - how did you guess lol, she is often on a keyboard too xp and tries to place her little butt on a cellphone also if i try to text. she got some neat cat-homes and tall scratching post with dangling "mouse" that she enjoys if i stand by it *sigh. if i am in a sofa just 5 feet away, she shown no interest in it. she even enjoys car rides, believe it or not, and sits quietly on my daughters shoulder while she drives and observes traffic (i know - not safe for a cat or a my daughter, just wanted to share her little quirks). i just needed to hear other people tell me that it is ok to find her more suitable home and that my family can read it too , because there will be more than one heart broken here ... thanks again for finding time to write.  
 i wouldn't limit yourself to a retired person, just let folks know it is a super-affectionate kitten that will demand attention. the kitten could, for example, be perfect for a family with kids of the right age that want a besty.  as for your family, if you do rehome this kitten i would not get another. its true this kitten is unusually affectionate, but as @susanm9006 mentioned, to some extent this is a kitten thing. you may be better off with a friendly adult cat -- side benefit of saving a life.  but again, if you work at it, this little kitten will mellow and eventually you'll find balance, still getting love and affection without driving you nuts. not trying to push you, but i'd certainly take that over a cat that ignores people.  
 hi! since kitten is hiding, i think i'd keep them separated, the kitten needs to have a chance to have some peace, and to grow.   also can you play more with the older cat? it looks like there's a lot of energy there that needs to be worn down a bit   
 hello. yes i continue to keep them separated except for brief interactions. both cats definitely have a lot of energy and i will try playing with the older one more before bringing them together. i wasn’t sure whether this was true aggression on his part or just somewhat typical behaviour as they are unfamiliar with eachother? and whether i should be taking many steps back in the introduction process or just take it slower as long as there is no wrestling/fighting?  
 your cats are beautiful! thanks for the advice. it is helpful and does make me feel optimistic that they will eventually get along. thank you!   
 he has some mild arthritis in the middle of the spine, and then the vertebrae that connect to the pelvis flare out in a way that i guess is abnormal? the vet - who was a surgeon specialist - said he had some instability in that area and so the bones grew this way to stabilize it. he probably had some amount of pain from that, and maybe a burst of activity or something wrenched it so it was pinching nerves. i think? all we know is one day he came down the stairs and could barely walk and had no tail movement. we rushed him to the emergency vet that night and they took xrays and saw the abnormalities on the spine. the follow up was with this new surgeon who explained the issue she saw from the xrays and recommended pain meds and crate rest.  
 awe poor guy. this one resonates with me as i'm going to have serious problems with my back someday. currently its not so serious -- when i have a flare up, i just try to move like an old man and it usually goes away after a week or two. and wouldn't you know -- i'm in week two of trying to deal with a flare up now, trying to move old man style. wife really appreciates it when i try and get out of garbage and such, sigh. anyway, rest is always the first thing to try for humans, hopefully it will work here. fingers crossed.  
 i like this idea! cannot imagine crating a pet that has been able to roam free for years and years. i wouldn't do it to feeby even if my vet told me to.  feeby has two nearly fused vertebrae in her upper spine/lower neck and some arthritis in some toes and an elbow. we think her age has caused the vertebrae to become a source of irritation for her at times - as she now limps off and on. otherwise, besides slowing down some, she is her normal self. she stops jumping on things when it is bugging her, but then the moment it must be getting better she is back jumping up on things. they haven't told me there is much that can be done for her (she is now on glyco flex plus for the arthritis), so as long as she isn't showing significant signs of pain, and continues to wisely slow herself down when she is bothered, i am going to let her (mostly) decide how to confine herself.   
 thanks, i’m happy it’s a compromise that works for humans and kitties alike. i’m not sure we would have adjusted to a crate rest either lol!  
 are there any free-roaming cats in your area? they might be distressing him and make him feel like they’re invading his “territory”.  
 hi, and welcome!! i just want to make sure i understand - you said this cat is about 3 years old, and has basically been acting this way since you got him. when did you actually introduce him into your home?   when you say you have a 3 cat home - does that include the new 4 mo kitten that you just got? clarification will help a lot in trying to offer possible solutions/ideas. thanks!!  
 let us know how things go   
 of course   
 this would be my suggestion, to hang in there and keep on ignoring him, up to a point, for as long as it takes. do the things you do normally. don't stress, don't even think about him at times, actually. i know this sounds weird, but he can tell when you're focused on him and that's scary at times.  you have him in your world now, so you have all sorts of time, there's no need to rush.    artiemom said: ↑  at night, he is on the back of the couch, while i am either lying down on the sofa or on my recliner. he also sometimes sits on the sofa arm, to get my attention for pets...click to expand...  this is an enormous thing, and quite incredible. when he does that go ahead and give him what he wants. otherwise, just go about your daily routine. he will get used to it all, because underneath it all, he knows, he can absolutely tell, that you're a wonderful, loving person.  next time, if you can maybe try getting him into a different room for vacuuming your bedroom - that's what i have to do for my boy because i think it has a certain pitch to the sound, anyway, something, that bothers him.  can you try a flat corelle type of dish? if @duckpond is available i think (? it's been a little while lol) that could work...   
 artie was special. your soul cat. it was different, no other cat will melt into the oneness with you as fast as artie did.   but geoffrey does care for you. he wouldn't come to you at all if he didn't. right now, you are his only stability in a terrifying world of continuous change.   yes, you had to clean. that's all right. to put off cleaning further would only have made it more frightening to him when you did it. now he has the sound of the vacuum cleaner in his file of "frightening noise, the thing didn't kill me, this time. it didn't even find me." every time you vacuum and the vacuum doesn't kill geoffrey the safer he'll feel with it.  i know you want a kit to cuddle. be silent, wait and listen to the whispers of reassurance that artie is sending you, that geoffrey is your cat, because you are the one who can help geoffrey. remember the look in geoffrey's eyes when you first saw him? when he went to you at the shelter, when you felt in your heart that this was the cat who needed you, the cat you needed?  love is strong. love is so strong sometimes the weight of it is almost too heavy to bear.   you can do this. stop judging yourself. stop putting timelines on this. in nature, in the world created for us to share with the little ones, time is measured in seasons not in months, weeks, days or hours.   did you notice that geoffrey's safe place is under your bed? under your bed, not in any other room, under your bed where he can be surrounded by your scent, where he can hear your heart beat at night. your heart beat makes him feel safe enough to face his fears for short bits of time. that is a huge gift from you to him and from the universe to you.  talk to him, lie on the floor and talk to him while he's under the bed. follow your heart.  
 a stainless steel water bowl means that he's comfortable with his reflection. that's a good thing.  
 he seems to be eating ok.. as long as it is not turkey.. but i am not sure about the acne..   g is now not eating much of the shelter dry food.. it is simply nourish (i think duck and turkey) with some of my dry wellness herring and tuna mix added...  he was chowing down on it.. i am slowly changing his dry. i could go with either one, but i do not want to introduce novel proteins, unless i have to.   simply nourish has like a duck and chicken mix, duck and oatmeal, etc... wanting to stay away from the other stuff..   i did try some purina pro plan. i think that may be what caused the really soft poop this morning.. or it could be from the stress of t-day...  for canned, i am staying with the shelter's simply nourish, my own wellness and now a bit of pproplan..   he does not seem to be a great big fan of fancy feast.. weird.   i would love to get him accustomed to a few brands, in case of a recall or a change in recipe. i would have something to fall back on.. but i do not want to stress him out.. so i am doing things slowly.   he is eating ok.. within the past 24 hours, he ate 3 cans of food: 2 wellness and one proplan-during the night.   i am ignoring him. he was a bit better, late last night and this morning.  i opened up a sample can of dr estey's turkey--nope... anything with turkey, he covers it up.. i open up some wellness chicken.. he tried covering that up, but then came back for it. i tried mixing a tiny bit of the turkey with it.. nope... so....it is just trial and error.  geoffrey came out late last night. i ignored him.  he explored.. he jumped on my kitchen counter and was about to jump on top of the refrigerator. i would never get him down. the new cabinets are really high up..   i could see his shadow from the night light which is on the counter. all i did was say: get down, get down..with a strong voice. he jumped down and ran, ears back, to under my bed.   he came out later, when i was going to bed.. again in the bathroom.. he was rubbing my legs. i petted him.. refused the feeling of picking him up.. let him come to me.. g put his left paw on my thigh.. i petted him.. looking away.. he circled around, again, this time placed both paws on my thigh. i petted him, sat back and patting my lap. he did not jump on my lap.  instead, he jumped on the bathroom counter. he kept looking at me to scold him. i ignored him.. he did not know what to think.. he was happy and purring.  went to bed, he was right there, cuddling, purring, kneading.  he is skittish, if i move..   i turned over, with arms out.. he was so funny.. he came over to cuddle, his belly facing me, with his head on my wrist.. for a long time...and fell asleep.   i, on the other hand, could not sleep. i had to watch him.. finally, getting chilly, i had to move.. he walked away, but still cuddled...  woke me up around 3:30am-- crying in ear, tapping on shoulder; a couple of times. i ignored him.   when i got up, he followed me around! same routine with bathroom.. i petted him a bit, but not too much. he followed me!! and explored.   we played for a bit.. he explored for a bit.. ate a tiny bit.. always going over to my room and under my bed.. his safe spot..  he was so weird. he followed me into his bathroom, watching me scoop his box.. as if to say..there was a lot in it.. that is why he was waking me...   he watched me scoop, and then took me into the extra room to play...  yesterday, i took artie's scratcher, his quilt, his old toys away.. and i left out a new yeow, sardine catnip fishy. artie loved them.. geoffrey seems to love them also.  one step at a time.. it was a quiet night and a quiet morning--so far, in the building.. geoffrey is back under my bed...   i have to clean my bathroom today, and do some laundry.. so it may upset him, but i am going to ignore him... let him come out to me..   
 your most recent update brought a smile to my face.   especially   when you can, do post a pic of geoffrey in this thread, for those who didn't see his introduction thread.    
 geoffrey....       hiding from me, when in a good mood:    playing:   
 thanks for the pics! geoffrey looks very intense - he is still studying everything, you can tell!  
 what a cute guy geoffrey is, and yes, intense! this is all so new to him, and he needs to be sure it's okay to let his guard down, even a little. give him time.   
 his tail is so darn cute.. it always has a curl at the tip. the tip quivers when he is interested in something.. so darned cute..   i just want to cuddle him to death... i went 48 hours without picking him up. i had to do it this morning, while in the bathroom. i wanted to look at his acne.. much worse.. a bit of raw skin.. dam...  i still do not have the heart to take him to the vet this week, as a follow up. i have not gained enough trust from him, to even attempt the chlorohexadine wipes. that would put him over the edge.. trying to get him in the carrier will do the same.. i cannot go back on things and have him shut down.   i gave him a can of dr estey's chicken. it was a sample i got.. he ate 1/2 can of it.. wow...   i know it is on sale at chewy's.. but 2 cases??? i mean, if it is an allergy, would it be worth it? he loves chicken.. hates turkey..   i guess i could order one case of chicken and one case of fish.. if that is appropriate..   i do not want to feed him exclusively chicken.. and just fish.. but... beef is ok..  no turkey for him.. no matter what brand. he covers it up, and refuses it flat out.  he is not a fan of proplan.. and absolute no turkey of any kind or brand. he hates it.  i cannot believe this.. the rain has stopped. it is cloudy.. geoffrey finally jumped on the cat tree!!! only stayed 2 minutes then came down.. he was tempted by it this morning...  yesterday, he took several trips out, to explore. he did well, until around 7pm, 4 girls ran down the corridor, screaming, sounding like a herd of elephants..  geoffrey ran under the bed.   he came out just as i was thinking of going to bed.. gave him fresh food, and said nite-nite...   he jumped into bed, cuddled right up against my tummy.. deciding to take a bath..do you know how hard it is to sleep with a cat, cuddled up to you, washing himself.. each movement was shaking me and the mattress..  so much for my early bedtime. it went on for an hour!! he loves to use my wrist as a pillow...   i got awaken early, with a cold wet nose on my cheek, and a cold paw on my shoulder!!!  i ignored it because it was too early.. had to keep myself from physically grinning.   this morning, he has been semi-exploring.   yes, noises, sudden movements really scare him. even the heat coming on.. the air from the ducts scare him.   he will be alone, for several hours today.  mass, a special presentation, then the shelter, for me..   he put 2 paws on my recliner's arm.. i stayed still. he jumped on the arm, putting his front paws on the back of the chair.. wondering if it was safe or not..  stayed that way for several minutes. i had to move a tiny bit.. he jumped down.. but at least he tried..   he is now back to his safe spot---under my bed, napping... sigh..   @lts3 i was thinking of a behaviorist.. my regular vet also works with one. sigh...... want to give it a bit more time before i resort to that... thanks...  gotta go...  
 sigh.. found a clump of fur on the floor..  geoffrey has a patch missing fur, behind his ear... with a scab...  please dear god, not another one with a chicken allergy... and i just ordered a case of chicken from chewy.. dam  and he is sneezing a bit.. weird..   he stayed under my bed, for 7 hours, while i was out.. no dust, cuz i picked up the mattress, box spring and vacuumed under there, last week... dam  it is dark, lights are dimmed and he is out and about.. my vampire cat..  
 he's just so adorable, cindy!  
 as someone mentioned earlier, there is likely more to geoffrey's story than the original owner shared with the rescue / shelter.   would reiki help settle geoffrey down?   
 i recently moved within the past 48 hours, and terra has not come down from cat castle even once. her food and water remain untouched, and i’m getting worried. she had a bad experience with riggs, the resident bulldog in her cat carrier as i was taking her up to my bedroom (feel kinda stupid for not having the presence of mind to have riggs on a leash before bringing her in), and i need to find a way to build her confidence so she can come down from cat castle and eat. should i move her food and water dishes to the very base of the tower? i’ve also been petting her and speaking soothingly to her, hoping she’ll come down, but no dice:  i keep the bedroom door shut at all times, unless i am entering or exiting the room, and i have her food and water just far enough awsy from the tower that she can look over the edge of the cat basket on top of cat castle and see it. i also make it a point to go up every now and then to pet her and speak soothingly to her. later today, i will visit the petco to see if they have any freeze drief pure meat treats for her. eventually, i want her to feel comfortable roaming about the house, but for now, i will settle for her feeling confident enough to come down from her tower and eat. please help me to help my little baby cat!  
 you'll need to do whatever it takes to get her to drink and eat, if it means getting wet food (even non-onion/non-garlic baby food) on your fingers that she might be enticed to lick off. are you absolutely sure she hasn't come down while you've been gone? anyway, she needs sustenance. no use of the litter box?  
 kk, now i’m scared. her litter is untouched, and the cat basket is not soiled. what’s up?  
 there’s nowhere she could really hide it. terra’s poop has what i like to call a powerful smell from a powerful cat.can cats hold it to the point of toxicity? when should i start to worry?  
 although with cats who eat canned foods, water is nowhere nearly so critical as it is with those who eat dry. they'll get most of their water through their food.  
 well, terra has been pooping, but not peeing. any of you have any advice for this one?  
 well, terra finally came down from cat castle last night, and love and cuddles were had by all. thank you all for your help and support throughout this.  
 how is she doing now? i had flu, and am just getting back online!  
 she’s doing fine. still have to introduce her to riggs the dog, tho. on the plus side, she’s more playful and affectionate than ever, and is always down for cuddlinevery time i lay down in the bed. oh, and it would also seem she’s discovered the other levels of cat castle besides the basket on top. all and all, i am hopeful of terra adjusting to her new surroundings, and learning to coexist with the dog.  
 i’ve noticed that ever since i let riggs into terra’s room, terra will occasionally hiss at the closed door, even if riggs is not on the other side. should i be concerned?  
 concerned, perhaps, but certainly not panicked.  try some of these suggestions: how to fix an unsuccessful cat introduction  
 oops! my bad! sorry, riggs! but to answer the question, yes!  how to safely introduce a cat and a dog  since bulldogs are so strong, and so very tenacious, just keep a very watchful eye on things for a good while!  
 well, i have good news to report: riggs snuck into terra’s room while i was using the john, and terra just calmly watched. i had been trying to get terra accustomed to riggs beforehand by giving riggs a good petting, then going straight to terra, and letting her smell that hand (riggs has a powerful scent to him, worthy of a bulldog. even i could smell hid scent on my hand). granted, i will have to secure my room a bit better in the future, to keep out nosy doggies, but i’m thinking of leaving riggs back in here again soon, with supervision, of course!  
 ugh, double post. why do my iphony have to be so suckworthy?  
 because they are not smart phones, they are smart-a$$ phones. i fight with mine several times a day!  excellent news! things are really progressing. it's slow, but that's the best way for a good, solid, permanent solution.  
 i think that you are doing just right. she's a timid, shy gal, and considering how long it took her to be comfortable in the home itself, it will take even longer to be fully comfortable with riggs...but you are getting there! keep doing what you are doing for now. i can see those first baby steps happening.  
 quick question for anyone who might know; terra will often tense up if riggs is nearby, even if she can’t see him. is there anything i can or should do to ease her discomfort, like petting her or speaking soothingly to her? riggs is a super chill dog, and i would feel 100% fine with leaving them alone while together, if it weren’t for the fact that terra is still openly hostile toward him.  i’m hoping that terra will one day just up and realize that riggs is a good dog, like how she one day decided it was ok to go downstairs.  
    
 well, terra reached something of a milestone today. she came closer to riggs than she’s ever been comfortable with in the past, and didn’t hiss! that said, when dog lumbered off the couch to greet cat, terra scurried up the stairs, but she didn’t hiss! with just a little coaxing from me, she even got close enough to look at him.  this was a huge step for my timid little kitty, and i’m hoping she got just a bit more comfortable with riggs, today.  
 yeah, baby terra won’t eat anything other than ians cat food, even when offered. i know that treats are an important part of a kitty’s life, and i just want her to enjoy something fun, now and then. she used to love the healthy treats her vet sells when she was a mitten, but not anymore?  i almost think that going for so long without treats has burned out her desire for them. am i being ridiculous? what flavors are known cat pleasers? her food is chicken flavored, so i think i will start there.  oh, and when she was a kitten, she loved ben & jerry’s. i would get a pinto that didn’t have chocolate in the base, and would let her lap up the frozen condensation on the inside of the lid. i imagine temptations would likely be better for her, though. >.<  
 hi! you could try, if by chance you haven't already, freeze dried orijen, purebites, et al. there are flavors like boar, venison etc.  
 oh, i’ve been meaning to ask for a while, but do non refrigerated treats have an expiration date? if so, it may explain why terra won’t eat her treats anymore.  
 you definitely need to find a way to keep them separated throughout her pregnancy and until her kittens are grown. mom’s get very protective and not tolerant of other animals. i would set up one of those rooms as her home base and keep her there.  
 my boy, link, does the same thing. a large and high box works wonderfully 99% of the time. for that other 1% having a litter box mat that is easy to clean and at least six inches larger is a must. keep a good cleaner, i use nature's miracle, on hand to make sure the accidents are well cleaned.  
 its not a huge deal, and its kinda funny, but caine didn't used to go on surfaces where there's too many things for him to lay down. the living room table has a serving tray in the middle and its pretty small so ive been safe putting keys, tissue box, mail and other random things on it for over a year now. well, now he's figured out he can just knock everything off in order to clear a space to lay down. he'll also scratch up any books i put there and try to eat the tissues. maybe i'll buy something i can hang on the wall to put this stuff in instead...  instead of giving up, has anyone else figured out a strategy to discourage this type of behavior?  
 get boxes and baskets and set your items inside. if the cat knocks the whole thing off, use velcro tabs to stick down the box or basket. velcro also works great to hold down items on the toilet tank, dresser top etc. easy enough to pick up and use or clean around but can’t be knocked over.  
 both mine do this. in fact, sometimes charlie will get on the table, knock off one thing after another and then stretch out in the space he's made weaving himself between any clutter left. if i had any need to stop them i would use the adhesive velcro idea from susanm  
 my kitten riley is about 4 month's old now, and is terrified by anyone but me in my apartment. when i adopted him at 2 months, he was quite outgoing at the shelter and didn't seem particularly shy or skittish when i was handling him. when my sister visited a couple weeks after the adoption, she was able to hold and pet him and he would be purring in her arms. fast forward to recently, my mom came to stay for the weekend and for a whole 2 days riley hid in my bedroom, she would nicely approach him speaking in a soothing voice and he would run under the bed. my sister didn't even have any luck with getting near him. around me, he's extremely affectionate and lays with me whenever i'm on the couch and sleeps near me every night. i'll admit i'm a bit of an introvert so having company over doesn't happen often and it's usually family so i'm worried i'm not socializing him enough. my other cat (2 years old), however, is very sociable and is always present when there's company so i'm hoping he'll grow out of it? i'd love to hear some experiences of those with shy kittens, if they grew out of it or any tips/advice, thanks!  
 so, i followed the advise given in the articles on this site to stop my cat from waking me up at 4am and it's sort of worked. she stopped meowing at 4am, but now she instead has started to scratch our bed to get my attention. i can't just ignore this like the meowing. this is my mattress she's destroying. every time she scratches i chase her out and shut the door. now i just keep it shut as soon as i go to bed so she's not even tempted. for the first few days she meowed at our closed door and we ignored her so she has stopped, but i'd like to keep our bedroom door open for air flow and to hear if she gets into something. i'd rather not put a scratch pad in our bedroom because i know it will wake me up when i hear her scratching and that's what she wants. i'd like to get her a little cat tree with a bed on top so she can maybe sleep at my head height but she'll probably scratch on it and plus, apparently i've spent too much on "cat stuff" and my husband has put his foot down. i just hope there is another option other than keeping the door closed.  
 that's what tomcats do. it's a rough life for an unspayed female, poor thing. also, many people have noticed their cats showing heat-like symptoms late in pregnancy, so it's fair to say something wacky goes on with their hormones, and that's probably what the tom is responding to.  no, cats don't have to be in heat to get pregnant. they're induced ovulators; it's the act of mating that stimulates them to drop eggs. so if a tom takes a female by force she can still get pregnant.   but also, outside cats are rarely in heat long enough to be noticed by humans, because a tom will get to them as soon as they're receptive, and that brings them out of heat right away. so she might have been in heat just long enough for the tom to notice but not you.  
 hi! i don't know, maybe something here might help; playing with your cat: 10 things you need to know  how to prevent your cat from darting out the door  how to fix an unsuccessful cat introduction  you, your cat and stress  how to set healthy boundaries for your cat  
 it sounds like she's a high energy cat and is bored. sometimes cats (kids, men, dogs, other animals ) develop bad habits because people around them reinforce negative behavior. what's cute from a kitten or two year old isn't so cute as they get bigger. there are ways to train cats away from bad habits like jumping on counters and i'm sure someone here will have those links handy. along with that would be positive play time. jackson galaxy calls it boil and simmer. i do have the link for that:  resolutions for a healthy cat: play therapy  
 yes, i was informed she was spayed when i got her from the shelter. she did not get introduced properly to the other cat that belongs to the roommate mainly because my roommates aren't thrilled i have her.   
 it'll take a few days to adjust but they will be ok. are they going to start off in one room? that makes the transition easier for them instead of giving them the run of the whole house right away.  i have boarded my cats for weeks at a time when i have vacationed out of the country and it really is ok! once they get back they sniff around everywhere to check things out for half the day but after that they go back to normal. my cats don't do this but some other cats have been known to ignore their owners after they've been gone for a while but they will go back to normal and be fine.  enjoy your vacation!  
 well ive taken both to my grandparents on several occasions, and they seem to do okay. i would worry about them pulling away from me though  
 cats have no sense of time passing. i mean, they don't know if a day or a week is gone, they just know you're not there with them. as long as they are looked after by someone they know and trust, i don't think they will be in distress. furthermore, it seems they already know the house where they are going to stay, don't they?   
 it's not too long. even if she acts aloof with you when you get back she will go back to her old self.  
 you probably will. we went "away" a couple of weeks ago. we went less than 12 miles from our home, and we were gone for two nights. we left our cats at home. we left them with more food than we normally would feed for two days, two brimmed water bowls, the heating on 12c even though we don't normally have the heating on and y'know cats have fur coats. plus we hid loads of treats to give them things to do in the day, and we piled up blankets and stuff for a cosy bed. when we got back they looked at us and were like "oh it's just you what a shame." as normal!   despite them clearly not being phased by this at all, when my mother in law told me after we returned there was thunder on one of the nights we were away, i was furious because i would have come back to check on the cats. she said "i didn't tell you about it because you would have cut your trip short. the cats don't care, i bet they slept through the whole storm." and she was probably right, even if she wasn't, the cats are fine.   you're doing what's right for your g'pa as well as the cats, if he struggles in and around your flat, then it's not a good idea for him to be trying to wrangle possibly flighty cats if he has mobility issues. better that they take the cats to their house and the cats are a little fed up with not being "at home" but safe in a controlled environment that your grandparents are safe and familiar with.    i'd not leave my own cats for longer than 3 nights on their own without supervision (they are both used to semi- frequent 2 nights) for me, that means that i would have to board them or have a friend stay at my house since neither mine, nor my partner's parents are practical care options and i wouldn't consider giving my key to a pet sitter. luckily (or unluckily if you like), we haven't traveled outside of this time frame unless we're in a commutable radius since we had ours. for example going to my father in laws over christmas, we're normally there at least 5 nights, but we drive back every day to spend time with the cats. i guess what i'm saying is it's all situational.   practical advice, leave the contents of their litter-box alone for at least one day before you travel, move the boxes (untouched) and their posts / beds with them, and leave them each a place with your scent when you drop them off. like a used and worn hoodie or shirt and get your grandparents to put these items in the places they use least in their house. it's good they have visited the space they will be inhabiting before this and try not to put too many worries or demands on your g'parents. just "they must stay indoors" and "here is their food" "please scrape out the box 1x every day (or 2days)". if you want them to do something specific with the cats, for example, one meal at 9am one meal at 12 then a meal at 5, then portion it out for them. preparation is going to help you feel so so much better!   finally, you're doing the right thing for your cats, leaving them with someone you know and trust and preparing before you leave.   
 thank you for your responses, i will definitely do as you suggested and leave some clothing items near the areas in their house for them. i'm at my grandparents know. my intention is to take about four of their trees and posts over there so i'm thinking i will leave some shirts on those. here's what i intend on taking over there for the cats      i think on those two small stands that you see there i can put a shirt over the square one and inside the circular one and that along with the familiar cat trees and stands should be enough for them. i would take that chocolate brown cat tree or castle as i call it and that you see in my profile picture but it is too big to move right now  
 oh that will be plenty of furrrrniture to make them aware that this is also their territory. it will smell of your shared home. i would recommend that you put the clothes where you think they will most likely want to sleep. if that's a tall wardrobe or a dark corner, on the arm of a sofa on the cat tree, whatever your cats would normally go for place the "smelly" item there. it should make them very comfortable in their spots. if the cats choose somewhere other than where you place that item to sleep it really doesn't matter so long as they have access to a "comfort" space. good luck and enjoy your trip!  
 i left my cats with my grandparents tonight and as i walked out to my truck and look to the door they were sitting at the door watching me it was so hard not to turn back around and take them home with me. and of course when i got to my apartment i half expected them to be at the front door  
 hi, this is my first post and i’m just at my wits end here, so i apologize in advanced. so i’ve got a senior dog named bruce and a 8mo old kitten named kylo. bruce has been with me for nearly six years now, and i fostered kylo’s mom and litter, so i’ve had him since he was a newborn. well, bruce is slowing down and won’t play with kylo anymore and it was driving the cat crazy. so i thought i’d get him a friend to play with, because he doesn’t play well with people. enter pluto.  pluto is from the same rescue as kylo and is about 5mo old, he’s very social and sweet. pluto is also huge. like, the size of an adult already huge. and kylo is a runt.  i did my best to set up the introduction like it should be—pluto is in the spare room, they weren’t supposed to interact beyond the gap under the door yet. but when i was trying to get out with the litter box, kylo got in. pluto was delighted at the idea of a friend. kylo was startled by the behemoth in his home. it didn’t go well, there was serious hissing and snarling and puffing up fur; as well as the flattened ears and circling. i grabbed kylo and took him out (he’s still small enough to do that easily).  today, pluto got out. he initially was going at kylo (not sure if he was actually attacking or not), but then he saw bruce. this was the second time he saw the dog (first was as i carried him in on day one). he went full attack mode and charged.  bruce is a very patient dog and is wonderful with kittens and play fighting, but if an adult cat attacks him for real, he will defend himself. he waits for a few seconds to see if i’m going to tell him to leave it and help, then it’s over. it’s only happened twice, but both times if it weren’t for quick intervention and luck, he would have killed them. not maliciously, but still.  now, up until this interaction, things had been strained but improving with kylo. but between him being surprised by pluto charging and then watching bruce and pluto start to get into it, we’re not even at square one now; we’re at like square -2.  the problem is two-fold: first, bruce does not see pluto as a kitten because he’s just so big; and second, kylo is terrified and won’t even go near the door to the spare room, he jumps at any noise and hides constantly.  i’m at a loss and terrified that pluto will get into it with bruce and get seriously hurt. and no amount of treats, toys, or affection has made kylo feel any safer.  any suggestions? i’m already considering taking pluto back and it’s only been about four days. i’m just so scared and it’s hurting me to see kylo so unhappy and poor pluto doesn’t deserve this. i don’t know what to do to help try and mend things. i love them all and just want them to be happy and safe.  
 thats great! so glad to hear its going well.  the baby gates is something i've never done, but several people have had success with it here, and it just seems like one of those things where if you can get it to work in your home, it is a clear improvement on traditional methods. glad you were able to get it to work.  
 awww...beautiful fur kids.    about the "play" fighting, this short article might be helpful: how to safely break up a cat fight as it mentions "mock battles" at the end.  
 hello! long time lurker, first time poster.  some background: we were a two cat household before our kitty, bruce, passed at the end of august. he and logan, our remaining cat, were happy housemates but not especially affectionate towards each other, but they'd sometimes play and would certainly provide company to each other when we were away. logan seemed okay for awhile after bruce's passing, but as time goes by he seems to be getting more and more lonely. he's 11 and as far as we're aware he's never been an "only" so we think he'd appreciate another feline companion around.  our local shelter is trying out a new program to "foster a friend for the holidays" where you give a cat a home and some love for the week of thanksgiving and bring them back the following saturday. i was curious, so i went to the shelter and found two adult cats who i think would be a good fit as a companion for logan (and us). it's tempting to bring them home for the week to see their real personalities, but let's be real. i'll fall in love and there's no way they'll go back at the end of the week. normally this wouldn't be a problem, but hubby and i will be overseas on vacation for a week starting dec 5.  i sort of see this from two perspectives. on one hand, i don't want to leave logan alone for a week if he's already feeling lonely. this will be our first long trip since bruce passed. we have a friend who'll come and check on logan after work every day, but otherwise the house will be empty. the other option would be to bring home a new family member now and spend the next two weeks doing introductions before we leave.   when we introduced logan to bruce it only took a few days before they were roaming the house together, so there's precedent for logan getting used to a new cat relatively quickly. of course, that was 7 years ago, and doesn't take into account the personality of a new cat (though both potential additions have lived with others before which is a good sign). in your experience, is a proper introduction like doable in two weeks? or is this folly and we should wait until after we return? would it be better to have two semi-introduced cats in the house separated by baby gates if they're not fully comfortable by the time we leave, or have logan wait out our vacation by himself?  thanks for your input!  
 ah, i should have clarified. the two cats we're looking at as possibilities are both females and are 7 and 2 years of age. the staff said both are pretty mellow and are "family cats" who should be able to get along with anyone. i completely agree with you, a kitten would definitely be a bad idea!  
 ah i see! i agree a well matched adult cat is definitely more likely to do well with another older cat. still, you have to figure on a one to two week introduction unless neither cat seems to have any stress at all, which just doesn't leave much time for supervised interaction. i mean, it would *probably* be ok, but its certainly within the realm of possibility that you'll see clear signs of stress/hostility and extend the introduction to two weeks, and then things won't go especially well right away when you put them together. that happens. what would the backup plan be, separation during the vacation? wouldn't be the worst thing in the world, but a week is kind of a long time, will reset any progress perhaps.   the smart play is probably still to wait.  
 thanks everyone! i've managed to resist for now but since i have errands near the shelter tonight we'll see if that lasts.  should we decide to foster for a week and recognizing there's a chance we'll fail, who might be the best option as a future companion for logan? there are now 3 cats available who seem like good options: a 1.5 y/o female, a 2 y/o male, and a 7 y/o female. logan is ~11 and still likes to play; he and bruce used to mostly chase each other and sometimes wrestle, with logan usually the instigator. most of the time though logan is happily curled up somewhere or following me around the house. my first thought would be the 7 y/o female since she's at a similar life stage, but would a middle-aged girl generally be intolerant of this kind of play? conversely, would a 1.5-2 y/o want to play more than an 11 y/o would and potentially bother logan? all three possible fosters are described as being pretty mellow so none of them will have kitten-level energy, but if one would potentially work better then i'd probably start with that one.   of course, my answer would be to bring them all home, but hubby would probably move out if i did that!   
 oops i added a little to my post above i'm sorry. poor artie,  let me switch to my desktop...  
 that's so neat-o, yes!  i was going to say that a damaged claw, out of all the possible injuries, isn't as bad as things could have been. so i've looked back through some of your recent threads, and i'm wrong, this isn't an apartment you're in, it's a house, correct. that sort of blows my theory of other animals causing problems, except that there's a dog and another resident cat, and i'm thinking what you saw is kaylee's redirected aggression. is artie frightened of other cats? can you work with artie more to get her confidence up?   
 oh bloody hell i wish i had a laptop that worked. used lots of collars, but they never worked - and i hate the fact that they don’t come apart if tugged at just right.  i work at a animal supply warehouse and i use so i’ve tried all those products except for natural pet. the diffusers - both brands - didn’t make a lick of difference, and (while i didn’t get the thunderease brand until the beginning of this year) i had them plugged in all the rooms since i moved in. though i did recently unplug them because one nearly caught on fire.  cbd oil hasn’t truly been tested on cats with hcm so my docs a little iffy giving it to kaylee.   
 i understand, calming products aren't the thing here. hang in there, we'll get something figured out for you.  so, this is a somewhat long thread - (f you ignore that i got a little upset on behalf of the victim kitty at first ), maybe there's something that helps;  prey-predator dynamic between cats  also take a look at these two posts, and hopefully one or both of the members i'm tagging will have a chance to weigh in for your situation.  loosing patience and highly stressed cat guy  desperately need help :-(  @catsknowme @danteshuman can you provide some thoughts on how to go about helping a victim kitty become more confident?  
 my efforts to ‘train’ our four 6 month old kittens to stay off of the kitchen counters has been failing. and i could use some help! i tried out putting strips of tape on placemats and leaving the placemats up all over the counters. i didn’t have much success bc frankly my counters including my large middle island are all fairly big and of course full of action. the cats jumped right over the placemats that had tape. except for one, who go5 his paw stuck, then in a bit of panic got wrapped up the in tape, and ended up running away in his freak out and got w end more hopelessly wrapped up in packing tape. i had to calm him down and get all of the tape off very slowly. even after that experience he hops right up on the counters multiple times a day.  long ago with my first group of cats, i used a small spray bottle, to spray water in the cats general direction. and while it worked a decent amount if the time, my understanding now is that is not a helpful or ethical practice.   i tried tin foil, too, and that didn’t phase them at all. they just walked right over it!  
 that's a great idea.  i've tried putting a pot cover over the burner, but they don't always fit that well, and of course will still get hot. the empty pot with cold water sounds like a much better alternative.    purr-fect said: ↑  just in case there is any doubt as to who runs the house!click to expand...  no doubt at all.    
 hi! you're not worrying too much, you are a concerned pet parent. are you parents ok with it if you decided to leave her there? there are a lot of kitties who don't ever go outside and they're doing well. granted, my opinion is that the utmost best scenario for a cat is indoor, with some protected/supervised outdoor backyard access (since there are other animals who like backyards as well, like raccoons, squirrels, other cats...)  back to your place, you could set up a camera so you can see what she does while you're gone.  as you mentioned, cat trees, scratchers, training her to go for walks with a harness/leash, toys, --and speaking of toys, can you give her things like food puzzles and hexbug robot toys (the robot toys don't work well on carpet by the way), etc that she could self-entertain?  food puzzles for cats  20 best interactive cat toys: the ultimate list (2018) | heavy.com  home the ripple rug  playing with your cat: 10 things you need to know  how to make your home bigger (at least for your cats)  
 attacking you is called redirected aggression -- cats do that with some frequency when stressed. you'll learn not to touch your cat when she looks stressed. its not a big problem unless you have a toddler in the house.  as long as she is eating and using the litter box, time should fix this. when you eventually let the kitten roam, you'll need to watch closely, but most times the older cat gets tired of hissing and growling and gets somewhat used to the kitten. used to-ish -- they may never be friends, and the older cat may display some degree of avoidance behavior and hissing/growling for years, but the anxiety when the kitten isn't actively in her face should fall away. if the kitten is on the chill side and doesn't jump all over her, they may do better than that. actual fighting is very unlikely with a kitten this young -- its something hard wired. your cat is scared and stressed, but almost certainly won't hurt the kitten beyond a swat if the kitten doesn't take the hint.  you could get a felliway diffuser. may not help, but it won't hurt.  if your worried about supervised visitation or it doesnt go well, you could try baby gates so they can see each other.  
    
 thank you so much! so i guess a week isn't very long...sure has seemed long around here!! i suspected she might be hostile at first, but everyone i've talked to said it should be fairly resolved within a week or two, so i've been worried this one might be unfixable. resident cat has done 100% personality change! one question- how would baby gate work, since they can just jump over it? plus do i ever challenge to older cat to come up, hang in kitten's room, or just fully accept her need to be away by herself? i just don't want it to become permanent that she will not come back to us. again, really appreciate it.  
 you're right, both of yours are big enough to jump over it. some people do 2 baby gates stacked to make it higher.   
 i've been doing some reading on why cats poop on beds but my situation is a little unique. i had my cat for around 7 months - she originally belonged to my crazy landlord, who rehomed her with a hoarder who kept her outdoors 24/7 for a couple months.   when she lived with me she was definitely an anxious cat, but had perfect bathroom habits. my landlord had kept her as an indoor/outdoor cat for several years and kept her litterbox locked indoors, so smo often went hours at a time holding her eliminations. during one particularly stressful period she started peeing small amounts frequently (not due to uti), but was scrupulous about using her box.   we trapped smo at the hoarder's place and brought her home on monday night, and for a few days she used her box normally - she wasn't burying her eliminations completely 100% of the time but always went in her box. last night though, we caught her digging in her box and squatting as though she was going to poop. when i checked the box she hadn't gone, and minutes later she was on my bed digging furiously at the sheet. soon after that she squatted and pooped in the middle of the bed.   the only thing i can think of that may have caused this is that she escaped from the room we've been keeping her in, and ran around the house for a short while. we finally lured her back into the bedroom by opening an adjoining door to the foyer, where she used to hang out all the time - she hadn't accessed this room since she arrived home. she pooped on the bed around 20 minutes after all this went down.   my best guess is that she was really excited from getting out, but don't know why she would poop on the bed because of that. other than that i'm thinking she could have worms from living outside. also, i know she was eliminating in the dirt outdoors since a box wasn't provided for her. i strongly doubt it's a constipation issue making her associate the box with pain, because she's been eating a ton of wet food and producing very normal-looking poop.   does anyone know why she would do this? and how do i prevent it from happening again? in my apartment i can only keep her in my tiny bedroom, and would really like to stop her from doing this in the future.  
 how long do you think i should keep her confined? she's been sleeping for most of the time she's been home, but is starting to get restless as she gets her energy back. the first time she lived with me her routine was going outside with supervision in the daytime and playing in foyer for several hours at night. i didn't think she'd respond like this to exploring spots she's already been before, the foyer especially.   we plan on allowing her back into the foyer eventually, but we hadn't planned on it so soon - opening the foyer door was the only way to lure her back into the bedroom though. she keeps scratching at that door now to be let in, but i'm afraid she'll get overexcited and poop on the bed again.  
 hello,  i have an older cat, she is now 17 years old and until 2 years ago had a sibling but she sadly died. the siblings rarely ever squabbled but i noticed that claudy, the remaining cat, would always act very aggressively when she saw other cats, which isn't very often as i live in a 3rd floor apartment, but occasionally when she saw other cats on the balcony she would go mental. but anyway when i heard my brother in laws cat had kittens i decided to take one. it is also a female cat and came here a few days ago. i have been keeping the cats apart, the kitten is in the bedroom and claudy is living in the apartment as usual. i have given them a few days to get used to each others scents and then decided to let them meet. claudy immediately reacted aggressively, hissing and growling etc, and when the kitten got too close she attacked, i think that if i hadn't been there the kitten could have been seriously injured. so the question is how long do i give them? i am really thinking that the older cat maybe cannot accept other cats   
 my savannah kitten is attacking my other cat's, how do i stop the awful attacking i have never owned a savannah before, only domestic cats. i love thunder dearly but he is hurting my other babies.  
    
    
 hello! i have - 2yo neutered rescue cat (finn). i live with him in my college dorm (don’t worry, he is approved to live there). but recently he has developed a real behavioral problem.  whenever i wake up to get ready for class, he starts meowing badly, and my roommates tell me that he does this every time i leave for any reason. it’s gotten moderately bad and is starting to really frustrate us all. i’m not sure how to stop this behavior. so far i’ve tried:  getting him more toys feeding him late, right before bed and not in the morning  playing with him a lot more often to wear him out i got him a leash and harness so we can go for short outside adventures to keep him entertained and active  so far, nothing has helped! i really don’t want to have i get rid of him but his constant meowing is keeping me up and getting on my roommates nerves. i’ve looked at feliway and considered using it as a calming aid but i’m very tight on money right now (college sucks) and i’m not sure i should if i should invest in it or if i’d even be able to keep buying it monthly.  can someone please offer me some advice or an inexpensive solution??  
 hi. how long has he been with you? if not long, this might taper off over time. he is obviously pretty insecure and doesn't want you to leave him. but, what is he insecure about? food??  what is your logic in feeding him late at night, but not in the morning? unless i misread something, it is primarily in the morning when you wake up to get ready for class that he is meowing. maybe feed him something then, before you leave? i am guessing he stays in your room while you're gone? is that where his food/water/litter box are?   does he eat dry and/or wet food? if he is not overweight, perhaps you need to leave him some dry to munch on while you're not there.  
 in all honesty, not a lot of time has passed since august, and he has been through this with you a couple of times before in just the short period of a year. so, he is probably thinking "when is it happening again". some cats are just more sensitive to changes than others. finn might be one of them.   down the road sometime, btw, you could try a covered litter box if you would prefer that to having him in your closet.  
 every time i start singing, just about anything, loudly, my cat gets really excited. she runs over and starts biting my feet if i'm not paying attention to her. she does anything she can to get my attention, meows, etc. if i pet her while i'm singing, she's happy. she doesn't do this when anyone else sings, just with me. fyi, i am a quite good singer, i sing on key and all that and people enjoy listening to me. so any idea why my cat does this? the biting my feet startles me, then makes me laugh, then gets annoying! it's not really hard bites, more like love bites, but it does get annoying.  if i'm playing the guitar and singing, she will come over and actually try to play with me. she will rub her body on the guitar strings, and has actually tried to play the strings with her paws. and of course, gets in my face and meows, etc.  cats are so weird. anyone else have a cat that does similar?  
 my cat milly freaks out when a female opera singer is on the radio. she ignores male opera singers -- it's just for females singing that she reacts. she'll do some of the things that you describe, @gentleheart -- very funny!  
 she is darling. such a lover. most useless pest control ever lol! she has zero prey drive, but it works out because i've got a pet lovebird, and the two are best buddies. i'm always around and watching when the bird is out of his cage, but she has never harmed him and they've been together a few years now.  i think it is when i hit a certain note, and get passionate about singing, that she does this. only some songs though. i can sing other songs loudly and she doesn't care. she almost never gets excited when there is music playing. it's just if i'm singing lol! she seems to really like christian worship music, and any song with strong vocals.  
 hello and welcome to the cat site.  that's so sweet that your cat likes your singing.   i'm sure you're well aware of the danger of a cat's claw even lightly scratching a bird, but i wanted to post the link to this tcs article anyway. raising cats & birds in the same house  
 thanks, i did know about that. that's why i do watch them carefully. with her, the claws don't ever come out. i'm not obsessively afraid though. i mean, there are all kinds of things fear mongering bird owners say to avoid. bells, for example. i got on a 'no bells' kick because "they can pull out the ringer and choke on it!". my bird was miserable without his bells, he is a very musical little bird. so i put them back. i never had a problem with bells before (the bird safe liberty style bells of course), and still have not to this day had a problem with them. just an example.  i worked extensively in an exotic bird shop with all kinds of birds, so i'm more familiar than your average person. birds tend to remind me of horses (which i'm also extensively involved with): there are some types of horses that no matter what you do they are just accident prone and will find a way to injure themselves. there are a minority of birds out there like that.  small segway rant. but yes i've always been super careful. it took a good year before i trusted the two of them without cage bars between them. and that was without the kitty ever showing aggression to the bird.   
 dogs howl when a person sings or plays music.  howling is a social behavior that canids do to bond and communicate with one another. when your dog hears you sing or play, it howls back because you are the leader of his pack. your dog howls as if to say, "let's all get together and h-o-w-l!"  cats can't howl. meowing is a learned behavior. it's not a natural behavior like barking and howling are to dogs. instead, when cats want to express bonding, they get frisky with each other.  therefore, i propose, your cat gets frisky when you sing because she thinks you are part of her group and she is bonding with you.  in simple terms, your cat loves you and, when you sing, she wants to show it!   
 couple of things:  (1) keep looking for triggers. some cats need to be petted in certain spots or they will be triggered. i cannot pet my older cat and watch tv at the same time, because sooner or later i'll pet too hard, or too low on her body, and she'll bite me. the belly & sometimes paws, hindquarters or tail is off limits for many cats. however, its quite common for cats to bite (in their minds) playfully so there may not be any trigger at all;  (2) try a loud enough to be somewhat startling "no!" before disengaging and ignoring for a bit;  (3) boredom probably has something to do with it, but at this point its a habit so i don't think you can cure it just by playing with the cat more or getting toys, etc. for sure think about how to address boredom, but the main thing is try the loud no and see how it goes.  (4) i don't think redirecting is the answer. that links the cat doing this with something good in their minds and may reinforce the behavior.  
 when i rescued my crew talia had no cat skills i think she was isolated form other cats and never learned cat behavior. she was a biter and clawed you. some of this behavior your discribing is kitten behavior or playful cat behaviour they have to learn. these are some steps we put in place that seems to work well if everyone follows it.  1. learn to read your cat ask your self when dose she get aggressive? what are you doing at that time? cats can get over stimulated. this is one of talia problems she gets over stimulated her back will start to roll and if you keep petting her she will attack. we've learned she loves head neck chin scterchs and just melts but you foccus to much on her back its to much. no one else has that issue but they all like to be handled in their own way.  2. your hands and feet are not toys just like with dogs. you can pet and love on them but hands are not toys.  3. be consistent with your rules and punishments. here we treat the cats how they treat each other.  1. no biting it means all attention stops and you get put down right off for a minute or 2. if you keep trying to get back up before time you get three warning before the person leaves. (im explaining it in human terms but they will understand your action) repeat bites get you sent to your room for time out. 2. clawing with the intention of hurting will get you slaped back (not hard enough to hurt but enough to get your attention) and sent to your room. a warning swap is allowed and our behavior stops and if it dosen't we won't chase you if you leave.  we also use the name warning system lol usually by the time last name is used they are looking and acting like what im not doing anything or the slink off to their room tough like yeah yeah im going. by the way their room has litter box food water and toys so its a real mean place to go. lol usually its just a regroup spot.  4. booping them on the head is an effective way to tell them to stop its something they do to each other. and again you not smacking or hiting them its a tap on the head.  it sounds like you cat might need more activity level. try intorducing more wond time get some moving toys that she can chase. two of my cats are runners and race around because they have high energy levels. oh a laser light if she'll play would let her run further then a wond. only one of mine loves the light a few of the others will play at time but don't really care about it. thats the advice i have and im happy to answer any questions but this is what works for us talia reraly bites any more and the times she does its because she hyped up.  
 i do think boredom has a role in this. she is alone while i am at work all day and is still very young and playful. i have added everything i can think of to create a fun environment for her while i am away: perches by 2 windows, cat tunnels, puzzles (food and toys), i hide treats around the house, put new boxes/ paper bags around the apt for her to explore, cat grass for her to chew on (she is a big chewer!), toys that are safe for her to play with alone like little balls she can bat around, and when i am home, i open the windows for her to have some access to the outdoors, which is her favorite! i have window nets, but don't feel it is safe when i am not here. we play with wands at least 3-4 times a day for a good 20 minutes each time during which i give her a small treat every time she "kills" her pray. this seems to work better as opposed to waiting till play is over as she would not release the toy if i tried to remove it from her to start playing again and would growl at me pretty loudly. she runs and jumps around the house and is quite out of breath by the end of it. i am going to try and leash train her to add to her list of things to do. she does not like other cats, and i can only have one where i live, so getting a friend for her is out of the question what else could i try to enrich her environment?   
 what do you mean by booping? is it like a little flick on their nose with a finger?   
 haha. i should have mentioned that it's not happening in the same place, everyday all at once. the toys, a tunnel and the grass are there all the time. the rest i kind of rotate. i did remove the bird feeder that was outside for a while. she was clearly overstimulated by that and i've seen a big difference since then.   
 then i would set firm boundary with her and be patient by slowly figureing out her trigers. make sure she not being over stemualed when your petting her and don't start loving on her unless she calm so like if you done playing wait before trying to pet her. it just takes time and you said that taking yourself out of the picture when she gets to worked up is helping her learn control keep doing what works it just takes time and everyone has moments of weakness or forgetfulness  
 before a spray bottle try throwing a toy and time outs with him. also make sure he not getting over stimulated by touch.   i stress it a lot because we honestly think talia was thrown out because she wasn't what people expected. they wanted this beatiful sweet loving cat and she is all that but she not a 24/7 loving cat she very independent and is very very senitive over stimulation.  
 assuming you can't figure out triggers and are not interacting when the cat is riled up, its probably just a habit. try the loud no! with disengaging and see what happens.  i wouldn't worry about adding more activities, you've put plenty of thought into it. you can have all the stuff in the world, but if your cat has decided biting you is a thing to do, you'll need to break the habit. so at this point i don't think it has much to do with boredom.  edit: just read that your having to learn when not to pet her. yep, young cats need to be ready to chill, which may not be that high a % of the time. if the cat is wandering around looking alert as opposed to laying down, good chance it is not ready. if you are not too sure, tap the couch and make a call noise and see if the cat will come to you. only pet the cat on the couch, don't play. and if the cat plays rough, get up and move to a chair.  
 @rini - spray bottles only work to defend a particular area, like the food prep counter, because you can leave the spray bottle there. if you have to go get the bottle, the chances the cat will make the link go way down. they don't work all that well to begin with, or for all cats, but above all, they have to be immediately handy to the location the problem behavior will occur. (i mean, if say the cat is on the curtain and you immediately run for the bottle and run back, then the running is the immediate stimulus and the cat may learn to link that with "bad". but then what do you need the bottle for? that is why i recommend an immediate and loud noise like no!) for something that happens everywhere like (potentially) play biting, a loud no! (or clap your hands loud, or hiss) is better. if it isn't working, try louder.  
 something is making him so nervous. some change in his life he can't handle. i would ask the vet and then try some calming treats they sell on amazon and see if that would help. definitely try some different litters in the boxes too, he may not like the ones you have, have at least 3 different kinds. i have had cats exist for years outside with a insulated cat house and a electric warming mat, because that is truly where they wanted to be. my feral russell is now 11 and has spent his whole life outside. an enclosure would be perfect if it could be managed, maybe even one of those larger chicken coops, it would definitely be more safe. be prepared for heartache if he does stay outside, eventually a car or a predator is a real possibility. i have so many little graves on my property.....only you can make that decision.  
 i already use an enzyme cleaner and another industrial cleaner and he will pee over it. that's why the carpet is discolored because ive cleaned the same spots so much. i live in the country so there are coyotes and all kinds of things so i really dont want to leave him out all the time. i will ask the vet to see what i can do. that seems like the best option now. nothing has changed in the house, but as he has gotten older he started to spray and did it more often. he just gets stressed by little things and sprays.  
 how did the trip to the vets go?   is he okay?   have you noticed any other cats coming into your area?   it looks like territorial.. when cats get stressed they spray and mark their territory   have you made any changes to the household? added new furniture?   i had this same problem so know how you feel for sure   check this youtube video out about how to stop cats from spraying indoors     ps - watch it in x2 speed.. love his british accent lol!   hope this helps and all the best  
 he had a severe uti with bacteria so he is on antibitoics.  i live in the country so there are skunks but thats never bothered him before. no new furniture. the other cats are fine. hopefully it was just the uti   
    
 glad to hear that she is okay.  
 this is true.   
 because of his age, definitely the first place you want to start is with a vet visit and a senior blood work panel. i am wondering whether it is developing arthritis and the coolness of the bathtub or the countertop makes his joints feel better. facing the wall would also make me ask if he is in pain or just not feeling well.  
 six weeks is very, very young to be away from her mom and siblings. these days it's recommended to not adopt kittens until they are 12 to 14 weeks old, so they have lots of time to learn kitty etiquette.   of course, that isn't always possible, however, with a kitten so young as diana, you need to take on the role of "mom" for her, and keep her safe, loved and entertained. right now she is looking at every other furry animal as her "mom" and she's too small to interact with both larger cats and dogs. she needs to be kept separate from the other animals until she is bigger, except under your supervision.  here is a new tcs article on how to introduce a kitten to an older cat which will have more information.  plus best and worst dog breeds to live with cats caring for cats and dogs introducing cats to dogs how to safely introduce a cat and a dog  also one on http://www.humanesociety.org/animals/cats/tips/kitten_play.html?credit=web_id97335545  
 hey everyone!  i am really hoping someone might have some suggestions for me.  i currently have two cats, milo (6) and chase (5). they love each other and are best friends.  about 4 years ago i moved to arizona (from pa) for work and brought milo with me (we previously lived at my parents who also had a cat).  when i moved to arizona, milo started occasionally pooping outside the box and seemed super sad and depressed. we bought lots of toys and when they didn't work at the advice of my vet there i rescued/adopted chase.  they got along right away and were best friends and this solved the depression issue but not the occasional pooping outside the box.  we moved home about 3 years ago to pa and have been in multiple places since then and the problem has persisted.  since then the issue has progressed to where he poops outside the box multiple times a day.  he does pee in the box(es) so he def uses the box(es).  i have two very large litter boxes in separate areas of my finished basement. i clean the box at least 1x a day (twice if i am home).   milo is a little chubby but the vet has advised he is not concerned with weight or anything. he likes to play but not for long periods of time and he does play and wrestle and groom with chase.   he eats normally and drinks water and loves to snuggle and seems pretty happy besides the occasional crying at the ceiling which is usually a bug or a shadow or something.  i feed them weruva wet cat food and acana dry food and give the science diet td as a supplemental food/treats.  they are grazing cats and usually have food out (they do not empty their bowls and just keep eating the food in the bowl is usually from breakfast which they slowly eat throughout the day).  i have been to multiple vets and have also tried the following tips:  - different litter types and brands - adding a 3rd litter box - increasing the size of the litter boxes - changing the location of the little boxes - cleaning the box 2-3 times a day (and washing the litter box monthly) - change in food/diet - adding 1/4 tsp to wet food each day (per the vet i tried this) - covered litter box vs. non covered  last year, the vet injected fluids under my cats skin which did not seem to really make any difference (and caused tension between the two cats for about a month but they are friends again).  about 4 months the last vet visit they instructed that i feed him as a treat science diet td as it has high fiber and advised to add 1/4 tsp to his wet food ever day. this seemed to do the trick for about 3 months and then it was back to the old habit of going outside the box again.  i have another vet visit today but going to the vet has not seemed to help and this has been going on for years and i have been to so many vets.  i was wondering if anyone has experienced anything similar and might have some other suggestions?  any suggestions/help would be super appreciated!!  thanks!!  
 hi. i'd be leery about letting this little guy outside without your watchful eye. my only experience with anything close is my sister's little dog, who will not back down to any other dog. my sister feels as she has rescued him multiple times from possible mutilation - just kidding, but barely. he just doesn't know fear. he's over 12 years old, and always been that way.   i realize saru is not 'confronting' other animals, so to speak, and therefore maybe the similarity i am trying to make is extreme. but, just like my sister's dog, saru may just not yet get the fact that everything is not safe for him to be doing.   of course, there is a chance your little guy will grow out of that behavior as he matures. kind of like dumb teenagers who have no idea they won't live forever, and can't do everything without repercussions - lol!  
 i have one of those. from the minute he and his litter mates could wobble, we called him "the brave one".  by the time he was 2, he had already used up all 9 of his lives and is now and indoor only cat.  he's still extremely brave, confident, and stupid.   
 actually, i never did. i didn't realize you could show cats that aren't pedigree!   
 yeah, i often said since meeting him, 'hes sweet, but stupid.' he acts like a monkey in many ways and even makes monkey sounds at times as he bounces around. hence the name, as saru means 'monkey'. but hes also smart like one too and at the most stupidest times if that makes sense.   
 that does sound like fun. if they had one close by and it was free i wouldn't mind. i have no car and no money to spend on stuff like that, so theres no way i could do it. but that does sound like lots of fun.  i think the only thing that would be an issue is the only thing saru seems to really freak out over is that he freaks out over loud sounds if its from outside of my house. he goes into panic mode.  he was pretty much full-on panic when my folks had the house re-painted and they were hammering to take off bad wood and chip away old paint, as well as using the high-power water...  its the one fear i really wish he'd break.  he was fine till that kid screeched in his face, but ever since then hes panicked from loud sounds.   
 hi! i think if you can, have a talk with your vet about calming meds for chloe. if your two older cats weren't confident, they'd possibly be more at risk as well.   there have been thread discussions where the idea was to help the victim cat become more confident, and your kitten could benefit from more playtime and loving.  
 sometimes i'll keep ana under my blanket between my legs on the couch with me (she likes it under there!) and i'll let chloe out. she'll literally walk around the couch trying to get under the blanket sometimes i'll open the blanket to let them see each other and ana growls and hides, while chloes eyes get big and i can tell she wants to jump her. that's about as far as i've gotten them in the same room. i thought the screen door would be a good idea but honestly? it gets chloe really worked up, watching her run back and forth you can see she's anxious too, which can't be good for her either. i'll honestly keep trying it though.  ana plays a lot with our 8 year old cat, they get along great and our super good buddies so she gets plenty of play time with her and myself. i swear chloes energy is never ending though. she'll run full speed around the house, i'll play with her for awhile and her "gogogo" is still full force. i think i'll definitely be talking to my vet about chloe and her insane amounts of energy. i wouldn't want to use medication, but it might not hurt to try and maybe she could benefit from it.  
 let us know how things go we're rooting for you.  .  
 i'll never give up trying i love my fur babies no matter what. so i guess i'll just have to keep doing what i'm doing and trying more play time with chloe then adding ana to the mix. i just feel terrible cause she's so terrified  thanks for the replies everyone!   ana says thank you as well  
 i would have a conversation with the neighbor to the effect that since their cat has come visiting you have become overly attached to him and can’t stand the thought of not having him around after you move, and wondering if they might be willing to let you adopt him. couldn’t hurt to ask and if they say fine, you have become a cat owner!  
 i always left a carrier out with a nice blanket in it and some treats and even would feed the cat in there sometimes so they get used to it. now i get the carrier out and all fight to get into it.  
 if you can discretely get one into a bedroom or room separate from the others and then capture and put him in the carrier, i would do that. then on to the next in a different room. save the most skittish cat for last, make sure all doors to rooms he can run to are shut and go for him. my most used cat catch is a quick arm lift under their middle, it is a little harder for them to wiggle out of.  
 i use an old hardshell carrier that can be broken into parts.  this is how i got my kits adjusted to their carrier but it was only one at a time also. what i did might not work for you but it might give you an idea. it is all a matter of perspective and putting yourself in their place. if you do that and try to understand how it feels, you should be able to resolve your problem.   two weeks prior to any use, i break it down into individual pieces and clean it so there are no odors or scent markings then leave the bottom part laying in the living room with one of the cat's blankets laying in it. this lets the kits become familiar with the shell in a safe and comfortable manner at their pace.  the week prior to the use i assemble it and leave it in the living room with the door open and the blanket in it. this lets my kits adjust to it becoming a cave like hidey hole. during this time, i toss treats into it or get them to chase something into it like a toy. occasionally i will swing the door close but not latch so they can push it open.  a few days prior to the use, i slip them into the carrier then carry them into another room where i release the door and give them a treat. i expanded the distance to the car then back into the house where they got treats and play time.  the day before i took them on a short trip around the block and rewarded them when i took them back into the house.  the trip to the vet, i did the same routine but they only got one little treat when we got to the vet and afterwards when we got home, they got a small amount of treats.  now adays my two kits actually enjoy or at least not get upset about going to the vet as they get treats (just like a kid getting a lolipop) afterwards.  just remember it takes time for them to understand, relax, and accept it.  
 you could also combine that with harness and leash training. after letting them become comfortable with wearing a harness, put them in the crate with the harness on and leash attached visit friends or just take them outside in the backyard (mostly someplace that you can control the environment interaction such as neighborhood dogs or kids) where you can hold the leash to keep them from running off on an exploration trip.   
 kittens are like human toddlers, a *whirlwind*, but much faster. they take a lot of energy. in time, the kitten will slow a bit and it will be easier for you two bond deeply, and sophie may be as, or almost as, affectionate with you. right now, she needs to keep her eyes peeled because the kitten could come flying from any direction. its natural that sophie is a little different with you now.  
 after taking a 2 year old cat from a home she had been at her entire life because they had an allergy problem, little moustachio was brought to our home. the family opened her crate in our front room, without permission from us. then talked for 5 min and left. we then corraled her from her hiding place back into a kennel and into a bedroom where she could be left alone from pets, and most people. one personal still has to live in there. though it has only been 24 hours she is very hostile towards everyone and everything. only hissing and trying to bite everyone.is there something more we could do to help make her used to us and get her more friendly?  
 hi! you could, although there are other calming products, treats sprays, etc and all these different products have a lot of different ingredients, or you could try music, as i mentioned above. thunderease and sentry have diffusers as well.  
 i should also add that she has had her kibble eating teeth removed due to resorptive lesions so leaving kibble for her overnight is not an option even if i wanted it. her kibble days are done.  
 ah well, that takes it out of my area, sorry i can't help. just in general, i can relate to where you are coming from. there are times when you have no choice but to yield to your cat's every wish. i had a cat that would eat plastic and throw-up if he believed he was hungry. i couldn't ever figure out how to be plastic free (harder than you think) so he ait whenever he felt like it. sometimes we must bow to the feline masters.  
 have you done any work on the evening / bedtime routine? vigorous play session, then a meal, then everyone to sleep would be my starting point.  
 when she was taking pepcid, i would set the microwave timer for 20 minutes before i could feed her. she got trained into thinking the microwave was in charge of meals. she’d wait those 20 minutes sitting in front of the microwave waiting for the timer to go off.   i don’t want to trade one alarm for another. but maybe if i could find a gong or a bell she can stare at for a couple of hours (and she would!) that i could activate from my phone when i’m up and good and ready, that could work. any ideas on where i could get such a device?  
 unfortunately, you're just going to have to ignore her trying to wake you up. getting up when she whines just reinforces that she will get what she wants if she bothers you enough. it's really tough to try to sleep through the meows (went through something similar myself) but eventually they get the hint and they'll realize you're not going to budge. after a while, she'll settle in to the routine of you feeding her when you're up in the morning as opposed to the middle of night when she cries.  
 so this is an unpopular method but i have one kitty who gets noisy if she gets hungry. i spray her with water if she wakes me up from time to time. other times i just shake the bottle in front of her before i go to bed to remind her. this is the only thing that has worked. it's fine because she is very outgoing and doesn't get easily spooked. she's gets over it pretty quickly.  
 i do. it’s called fear and dread. if she doesn’t sing at her appointed hour, she’s likely nauseated and i wake up on my own in a panic about whether she’s going to blow. like she did this morning. i’m tired of her weekly hairballs. egg yolk so far has not been helping. but her coat feels awesome.   
 have you tried clicker training? click just before you feed her until she knows she will get food when she hears the click. after a while, maybe she will realize she doesn't get food during the night. sort of like the microwave - wait till you hear the click.  
 i don’t like it. it’s probably fine for your cat but not the relationship i want with mine. she has it tough enough with her ibd and hairballs without adding extra bedtime stress.   
 because he's a cat.   
 he is trying to absorb as much of your smell as he can because he loves you and you smell like home to him. or you eat a lot of tuna.  
 here’s a helpful article to get you started: 16 top cat experts share tips for dealing with timid cats  i would recommend opening the carriers to let the cats explore the safe room. they might just run and hide, or even just stay in their carriers, but it’s good to give them the option to explore. i’d recommend just sitting quietly in the room with them, and let the cats approach you first. they’re in a new environment, which is usually stressful for cats.  
 thank you all for the advice, i really appreciate it. i personally had never met them, but my mom had. they seem to have taken to her a little better because of that.  we've been working on socializing through a fence type thing, and giving them treats through it. we are putting their morning/evening wet food in. they also have two large litter boxes, and water and dry food feeders.  the male is more friendly than the female, although she is not as aggressive as before. i guess it's just a matter of patience. i've never dealt with a scared cat before, and was not sure how to handle this.  again, thank you all.  
 there's a cat that's frequently boarded at the shelter that hisses (and sometimes swipes) whenever you leave her room; we've always figured she wants whoever's leaving to stay and pet her more.   another feline boarder that's very aggressive has been taught "back!" by her owners (using clicker training), and it actually works.  
 hello eveyone, so i have (had)3 cats that i bottle fed since 2 weeks old and of course they have an extreme bond. 3 boys who did everything together, this past wednesday my cat gurmo was hit by car and died, a neighbor witnessed it and said his brother orange was there yowling and basically screaming over his brothers body. my other cat was at home and didn’t see it, my cat orange is so depressed, my once playful energetic independent boy is now depressed sits on my bed with a glazed look in his eye and basically looks crushed and just like he doesn’t want to move. i have tried to put my mourning aside to give him extra attention but he just looks so sad i don’t know what to do, there other brother bob seems completely normal and i’m not sure if it is because he didn’t witness it happen ? i just wanted to see if anyone here may have gone through something similar, i tried to google it but couldn’t find anything about a cat actually witnessing there siblings death it’s been almost a week exactly i just want orange to be okay this probably sounds rambley but it’s just hard to put it all into words, and tips would be greatly appreciated  
 i'm so, so, sorry. condolences to you, and to little orange.  rip sweet gurmo.   i've never had a cat witness another cat's death, nor do i recall reading anything like that here on the forums. however, it is very common for one cat to mourn/miss another. plus he is probably picking up on your sadness/stress.  until other members reply, i'll post a link to a tcs article that might be helpful:   do cats mourn?  
 i am so so sorry for your loss. that is devestating. i am no professional but in my experience it helps to keep them busy when they're grieving. buy some new toys, bring some interesting new smells into the house and hide them around! my two love branches brought in from the forest. start giving him something tasty to eat at mealtimes or hide treats in toys and feeders for him to find. basically when he seems depressed, try to get him moving rather than sitting around feeling sad.  
 thank you so much everyone, his brother tries to play with him and he will play for a moment but then will give the “i’m not in the mood signal” to his brother bob but i think he is taking baby steps and i am grateful for that, another thing i wanted to ask about was introducing a new kitten, my mom has 3 foster girls right now and for weeks i have been attached to one but i had no intentions of adopting her, i would tell my boyfriend how much she reminded me of our cat gurmo way before he passed, now that he is gone i started to wonder if bringing her home would be a good idea or if my current cats would not be okay with it ? maybe a good distraction? (my cats are a year old so they are young and playful)  
 and @danteshuman it does make me feel better to know they seek me when they are stressed, it comforts me to be honest, that they know that i am there protecter thank you for saying this i never thought of it.  
 there's always the option of being a "foster for a foster" home! it might just help. it might make everyone feel better without forgetting the friend that was lost. if this one attached herself to you, i see no harm in exploring this option further if it's something you're doing out of heart and *(rational) mind.   
 i have taken everyone’s tips into account thank you so much, i might try to bring the baby girl to my house and see how everyone feels after a few days and if it isn’t going to work i’ll take her back to my moms and she will be adopted by another loving family, but something feels right about it and i want to go with my gut and try it, it’s so encouraging hearing from all of you, many people in my life are the “it’s just a cat?” type :/ everyone here obviously shares these same love i have, feeling that they are my children, it’s very relieving from this stress. <3  
  here is a photo of the baby girl for anyone curious   
 oh what a doll - thank you for sharing! i'm so hoping you decide to keep her!! take a look at this, hopefully it helps; how to introduce a kitten to an older cat  
 thank you! i just read through some of the article and saw that the hissing and initial interaction can go away with time and a great relationship can be formed, but with this being that they lost there brother a week ago i’m hoping the outcome can be the same as any other new kitten being brought in, and hopefully she can bring my boys some new fun and excitement eventually, her personality is so similar to my gurmo we lost it’s crazy, and it’s the reason i brought her home. i think i was hoping for a beautiful embrace from my other cats but obviously that is optimistic to a fault on my part, i’m going to just keep things quiet and slow around the house so everyone feels relaxed.  
    ellielikescats99 said: ↑   here is a photo of the baby girl for anyone curious click to expand...     ellielikescats99 said: ↑  thank you! i just read through some of the article and saw that the hissing and initial interaction can go away with time and a great relationship can be formed, but with this being that they lost there brother a week ago i’m hoping the outcome can be the same as any other new kitten being brought in, and hopefully she can bring my boys some new fun and excitement eventually, her personality is so similar to my gurmo we lost it’s crazy, and it’s the reason i brought her home. i think i was hoping for a beautiful embrace from my other cats but obviously that is optimistic to a fault on my part, i’m going to just keep things quiet and slow around the house so everyone feels relaxed.click to expand...  so sorry to hear about your kitty getting run over, but glad to hear that the healing has started. nothing like a kitten to make you forget sorrow.   little kitties disrupt older ones, the way it is. i just adopted one myself, and my five other cats, including a grumpy great great grandma are doing the usual hissing, but they, and the new kitten are adjusting.   introduce everyone separately, with the new one. they'll often run away in a panic (silly! big boy is five times the size of my new kitten) but they'll gradually get over it.   
 @doomsdave it’s nice to know someone else is going through this process too! i thought it was a little funny my big boys were afraid of a tiny little girl lol.  
 8-9 weeks is still pretty young. i'd suggest doing the introductions slowly, and not letting her be alone with the other cats, until she is bigger, and you know they are all getting along ok.  
 here are some toys that a cat can self-entertain with; food puzzles for cats  20 best interactive cat toys: the ultimate list (2018) | heavy.com  home - the ripple rug  
 hi surya, thanks for the reply. it's reassuring to be able to talk this out. he does seem to have a very sweet temperament with people especially. it hasn't been that long, but i've noticed that rosie has no aggression towards him at all. it's just griff - he has been pouncing on her or swatting her. maybe because he's the new kid, he's just nervous. but it does concern me, i don't want rose to be picked on. she's way too sweet. i guess i will have to give it time, as you say, and see how they do. thank you for your feedback   
    furballsmom said: ↑  hi! to have the concern of not wanting your relationship with rose to change is a valid thought. i've read of additional cats making things quite different in some situations and the resident cat changed quite a bit.  thinking out loud, what if you gave that little squirt griffin back to the foster, even temporarily to see if your household calms down and your comfort level increases? you do have your hands full right now    she may very well not - it's entirely possible that she's sleeping while you're away, and wakes when you're home to snuggle, eat, play and all the good things you represent to her.  it's possible that if you utilize a hiss (just like his mama would) along with distractions for griffin to stop the pouncing and chasing, that they may be just fine.... i'll post a list of some toys that might work to channel that high energy of his.click to expand...  hi furballs mom, thanks very much for the feedback - that's helpful. i thought about that too - giving them a full week or two, to see how they do, and if it seems like rosie is unhappy, i give griff back to his foster. i don't suppose it will hurt him in the long run although i feel bad about ping-ponging him, but it is an option.   
 the ripple rug looks great, looks like i would need some space to spread it out, but looks good   
 oh lordy me, that is too funny    
 lol - thanks for the laugh. that's great.   
 you know, when i first brought rose into the house, i bought harp cds for her, and one that is supposed to be tuned specifically for cats, to calm them. i played them last night at bedtime for everybody including me   
 hi msaimee,  thanks! griffin is about 8 months to a year old. i think it's both. he does want to play, he loves to play, but he is also trying to be an alpha male. it's tough because he's super sweet with people, and actually, rosie hasn't been aggressive towards him at all. but she does seem bummed out. she is not interacting with me as much, which i really miss.   rosie was used to an older cat. we had henry before; he was 16 when they met. they got on beautifully. i also wondered about a kitten for her, one fairly young, so that there is no question about who is alpha.  i did spend time with griff and he seemed very sweet and mellow at the fosterers'. but i'd rather have no second cat, than to have rose feeling out of sorts or bullied. we will see how it goes over the next couple of weeks. if it doesn't get better, i may have to bring him back. thanks again for the support.  
 thanks, bruce. griff is about a year old, with a few pounds over rosie, so the aggression does worry me a bit. and she is not interacting with me as much, which i also miss. but point taken, it may be that they do get on with time. i think i'm going to see how we do over a few weeks. i should have some indication by then.thank you.  
 your cats are gorgeous! are they atop the kitchen cabinets in that picture?  i do feel your pain, though, and i only have two. our boys are six months old and go into "rip and snort" mode at least three times a day. we try to wear them out with wand toys and cat springs, but mostly we make sure they have great places for ripping and snorting. our house looks like we have toddlers and are crazy bad housekeepers due to the tunnels, collapsing cubes, cardboard boxes, baskets large sheets of packing paper, giant scratching posts, cat carriers, beds, window seats, cat trees and condos strewn everywhere in our house. we still have upside down carpet runners on a couple of pieces of furniture i don't want them on, but for the most part they go where we've made it comfy or fun for them. i'm thinking we'll have to start accumulating wall shelves and steps for them next. i wish i could afford one of those wheels, although who knows if they would even use it. as it is, we move things around to keep them interested. in the beginning we used one of the cat trees so they could be near what the action was - the kitchen island - but not on it. eventually we moved it to block the sliding door window treatment. it's currently a favorite jumping off spot to its twin in the family room. someday we'll have our adult house back and some mature moggies, but for now we just control the chaos.  susanm9006 had great advice! i especially love the bird netting!  at six months they're supposed to be able to appreciate catnip, but ours are indifferent to it so far. you could try some, or silver vine. one of mine loves that. he'll chew it and roll in it and then look for a good napping spot.  i think they're just going to be rowdy for a while longer. i sort of hope so! i love watching them play.  
 have you done scent exchanging yet?   
 it will take time, just stick at it you're doing the right things. a second gate is a good option as that way they can see more of each other without you being there. are the gates high enough so they can't jump over them when you're not there?  
 @duncanmac that sounds very encouraging to me. swats and hissing and growling are normal. when i introduce cats, those are some of the stages.  when they start to play wrestle, watch for screaming, claws and tufts of fur.  in the end, there will be some chasing. i always like to see that both cats take turns as the chaser.  stick with it. you've made good progress.  
 we're almost there. last night they spent an hour and a half together with both of them hissing and swatting but nothing vicious. the safe room is small and when i'm in it a block the door, so i got out the laser pointer and played with both of them at the same time. it kept them distracted and close to each other. i was also able to hand feed both of the treats alternating between cats.  there's a chance they might start tolerating each other by sunday  
 that's excellent progress. one thing i would try & not do if possible, not block the doorway as if one of them feels it's to much they then will have a get out. if that's not possible just keep doing what you're doing, it's going really well  
 that's why i used the laser pointer so i could stand outside the door.  
 last night i just let them to themselves for about an hour.  i was near by but only hear hissing and a meowch here and there, until the new cat had enough and went to hide under the deep-freeze.  (there's an amazing amount of room under there)  i separated them at that point, mostly because i didn't want duncan to go there too.  there would be no way to get him out and it would just be a cage match at that point.  this morning was interesting.  they interacted some and then both kind of laid down near, but not too near, each other.  then duncan swatted the new cat in the butt so hard it sounded like a face slap.  the two of them have been "boxing" a lot.  good thing is barry is moving around the basement - i actually saw him walk in and out of his safe room a couple of times (he was alone downstairs where his room is)  just a casual walk - not slinking or running.  i think he was looking for the stashes of treats i leave for him because i was just down there.  got a pet this morning for the first time in a while.  i had to reach in for it, but once i started, barry was really into it.  
 wow - i think we might be almost there.  [as i was typing this, i had to separate them.]  all morning they have been together - playing, boxing, hissing, growling, laying down and ignoring each other.  no major dust ups, but it seems barry had enough and went to hide, so i separated them to let him relax.  barry has come out of his room to play a couple of times.  and they have chased each other around outside barry's room.  only downside is that it seems that duncan is trying to keep barry from leaving his room.  tonight we will watch tv downstairs for a while and see who comes out to play and cuddle.  duncan is the orange and white cat; barry is grey and black.        
 yeah, well that ain't happening here. i thought i would get lucky with a 5 month old kitten and a shy 10 month old, but the little kitten is trying to be the boss and the new guy is just getting his swagger back. the fighting started last night.  last night, duncan cornered the new cat in his room and for the first time the cats seemed to wrestle. i let it go for a little bit then hit them with the spray bottle. (btw, the spray bottle is only used in two situations: fighting cats and when duncan bites us in bed in the middle of the night. it has been quite effective on the biting.) i maybe could have let them go a little longer, but i split them up afterwards.  barry is coming out of his room on his own to explore with me doing other stuff downstairs, sometimes with duncan loose but duncan usually herds barry back to his room. when duncan is not around, these are short little forays that usually end with him running to his room, but he takes a little more time each time before he runs back. at night and during the day when the cats are separated, barry explores the basement and sleeps on my recliner or the windowsill. there are times when duncan will just sniff at barry or lay down nearby and other times when he's swatting, hissing and growling. they seem to start calm and then the tension builds up. it is also worse if i give too much attention to barry and sometimes any attention is too much.   
 i would slow down on introductions until about a month post-neuter. as it is, your boy is hardwired to defend his territory.   
 i expect the same thing.  i'll just have to wait it out.   
 it's like csi with these cats. i did a little research on fighting vs. playing, and that play is silent came up. they are not totally silent but there's not a lot of hissing, growling or meowing, so i don't know where this falls on the spectrum. they are relatively easy to get apart once i feel its gone far enough - i usually just walk towards them and they split up. i only had to use a squirt bottle once a couple of days ago. duncan will also slink up to barry on his back or front shoulder - haven't figured that one out yet, but it is not a very good offensive position.  barry is not very vocal at all. he hisses some, but i don't think i have heard him growl. he's meowed just two or three times to me. duncan is very vocal to barry and us.   
 it could very well be that they are rough play fighting. are their claws out or are the retracted when boxing, if they are retracted this is also a good sign that they are play fighting. when cats are really fighting it is very hard to seperate them as they are intent on hurting each other. see how they go today & have a close look at them.  
 well u may not like wut i'm about to tell you but the 1st thing u need to do is get rid of the water bottle. throw it away no more squirting with water. it only makes them mean. trust me i had a cat wen my daughter was 3 years old and it used to bite my husband n i in the middle of night -and also used to jump in window and growl and hiss and we would squirt it and it made it worse. well i've learned things since i was 24 years old never to ever do tht again. i now have 2 kittens kallie and keke9 months and 7 months keke was fereal and would bite but wen she would bite us in bed i would tell her no and put her down on the floor. it worked it took a couple weeks but worked and everytime she would bite i would tell her no and quit playing with her. she now doesn't bite anymore she play bites. so it does work. -as for both cats u have already kept them separated so possibly put a gate up and let them see each other and wen there no more groweling put food down for them to eat together. they r gona play and wrestle thts wut they do just as long as other cat doesn't get bit or cry they r fine. so u can take this for wut it's worth- but i have 2 loving cats and my keke doesn't bite anymore. hope this helps😺  
 it's good that barry is being more receptive to you & playing more. he sounds like he is coming along nicely. it sounds very much like they are play fighting to me. yes the cats will dictate how long they can tolerate each other over the weekend but don't push it to much. let me know how it goes.  
 well ok then.  
 last night i did not separate the cats, and it seemed to work.  i spent extra time with them before bed and made sure that they were basically ok with each other. extra treats and i had them both out in the family room downstairs taking treats from my hand when they were maybe 4 inches apart. they tolerated each other and i figured - what the heck.  so, after lights out, they chased either around for an hour and then went to sleep or at least got quiet. no fights! this morning duncan was in our bed and barry was in his room. and this morning was a little craziness and chasing.   barry is hiding - but the storm might have him freaked out. let see how today goes and if i can get two nights in a row.  
 rub a shirt over barry: i understand the principle and appreciate the advice, but barry says "no way."  i have to see what the vet says for convalescence for duncan, but i plan on having the cats together for a short period of time tonight and then separating them for the night and tomorrow during the day. i'm hoping that two or three days and any lost progress will be made up.   
 they can pick up a lot as the cat carrier will have been placed with other ones so the carrier will smell a lot different. the vet & other staff will have handled him so their scent will be on him & just the general scent of the vets practice. it's good though that they weren't affected.  
 we made a lot of progress this weekend. the cats were together yesterday whenever we were home and did fine. today we were out for the afternoon and left the cats home alone together. there were no apparent incidents, and when we got home they were both asleep on the couches downstairs.  barry is much more confident - coming out of his room and roaming around the whole house. there is a lot of chasing, mostly duncan the resident cat, chasing barry the new cat but not always. he is definitely more confident and chases treats and toys right under duncan's nose.   there has been a lot, a lot, of wrestling but it is mostly quiet and ends quickly with a chase.  i think that we can leave them together during the day now, but we are going to wait until wednesday - one of us will be home early that day, just in case there is chaos.  if this is really the end of the integration process, it will have taken just a day or two less than 6 weeks. about 3 of those were spent getting barry confident and out of his shell.  
 you have done an awesome job!  
 i'm going to call the integration a success, even as the cats are upstairs chasing and wrestling right now.  time - it seems that it was all about spending time with the cats, individually and when introducing them.  well, time and treats.  since we got barry, i have gone through 3 pounds of cat treats.  these cats are both very food oriented.  so, three last pictures and a small rant to close this thread:         and my rant:  barry was stuck in the petsmart shelter for 6 months because he was shy - he got there at about 5 or 6 months old so he was a cute little kitten at the time.  we passed him up two months previously because my wife always dreamed of an orange cat, and when we decided on a second cat, i was afraid that he would be gone.  the shelter worker was surprised when we said we wanted barry and when they dropped him off, they said that he was there so long because nobody wanted to take the time to work with him.  well, its their loss.  we have a cat who comes up to us for pets, rubs against our legs and loves the affection and attention and he rewards us with a deep, deep purr.  he's not a lap cat, yet, but i can see him getting there.   
 well done you for sticking with it when a lot of people would have given up. barry will soon be a lap cat once he gets a bit more brave.  you have two lovely cats that have eventually learnt to live with & love each other. they will love being together for a very long time. well done again. feel free to post again if you encounter any problems but i'm confident you won't. 👍🏻👍🏻  
 thanks.  it has been a long road to get here, but at least it wasn't too rocky. there were no real problems, just time to build trust. my wife only recently has been able to just reach down and pet him, and he still doesn't "let go" and really get into the petting session with her.  
 so, apparently its me. yesterday we again had company and barry was hiding - until i got home from work and then he came right out of our bedroom without being called. walked around and even played a bit with a 4-year-old who is a little loud and rough.  
 aww bless him, he must feel so secure & reassured around you. have you tried feliway friends? it helps cats that are a little nervous, you just plug it in & it emits a calming scent that cats react to. you can’t smell it though. if you’ve not heard of it make sure you get feliway friends not the basic feliway. the friends one is for multi cat households.  
 oh wow i can’t believe it’s been a year. i’m so pleased that barry has come in so much, he sounds like a very happy contented cat. well done you  
     barry turned two this week - all of us have come so far since last february!   
 go barry, that’s brilliant news, it must be so lovely to see him come on day by day.  duncan is such a handsome boy, he looks full of mischief.  happy birthday duncan!!  
 siamese cats do have a lot of personality, don't they? and, i think all of them have high social needs compared to most cats ( they're more like dogs that way, which makes sense to me, since they're a very old breed.) and, yes, sometimes they seem to want "their family" to all be in the same place. freya sometimes will yell at me in the room i am in, run out, then run to where my wife is, yell at her, and repeat until we come put and all go to the living room with her.  here are some things that helped my own siamese cat, freya, with her stress and anxiety issues. i'm sure that you've tried some, but one or two may be new.  interactive play: wand toys and fetch are great, but my siamese also sometimes likes to play catch (i'll roll a ball to her, and she'll bat it back to me.) in other words, no mater how great a toy is, a human controlled toy si always 10 times as fun.  safe places.... having places that feel safe to your cat can help. cat shelves, especially on windows or extra high ( i have one that lets freya sit on a "bridge" over a door between 2 6' high shelves. she loves them all, but when anxious the "bridge" is a particular favorite. shew also really enjoys her "pod" ( a window shelf that is enclosed so it is like an elevated cave ( because, some cats like caves and trees... it is what she's in in my current profile picture) but, it doesn't have to be fancy, a box on top of a chair or table with some kraft paper inside works pretty well.  a water fountain. seriously, when anxious she'll sometimes go up to it and have, what my wife and i call, " a soothing drink."  puzzle feeders. they are great if you feed dry and your cat is willing to use them. they provide an experience that feels a lot like hunting. once freya got some, she needed less than half as much play time. they also slows them down a bit for better digestion ( read less cat vomit!)  for separation anxiety, when i leave, i tell freya how long i will be gone. "i'll be back in 2 or three hours. i love you." is pretty much the usual (well sometimes it is half an hour or 4 hours, or what have you.) it seems to help... the ritual aspect, i think is a lot of it. after you do it a few times your cat will know what is happening, so they will know that they should just take a nap till you return.  sleeping on me. freya likes to sleep on my legs (especially if i have a fleece blanket over them. it calms her and makes her quite happy.  talking to her. sometimes she just likes me to talk to her, especially if i use a "story voice", like i would use when telling my nephew a story...  kitty prozac. in my case, freya required medication for some of her issues (it worked well for her, luckily). most cats don't need it, but if you've tried everything else, it often does help, so don't be afraid to talk with your vet about the possibility.  
 some cats are just more needy than others. i am around feeby nearly 24/7, but there are still times she comes searching for me. she is almost always by my side when i am not gone or busy doing something. if she is in the mood, and i am busy, she will still squawk, calling out for me. of course, that is as i said, when she feels like it.   but, the poop thing to me is something different. i may have missed something in your post, but is the pooping problem newer? i am assuming the attention calling has always been a part of her? those little nuances matter in trying to determine if there is an issue or not.  
 we have that problem with our 1-year old feral kitten ("andy") and our four (4) chihuahuas. andy hunts them and they are all skittish as a result. sometimes we crate andy...and most of the time we crate "amelia" (the most vulnerable of the chihuahuas who weights only 2.5 pounds). all i have to offer is that we crate one or the other.   
 even though they are visiting for hopefully just a short while you still need to go through a slow introduction if you want them to get along. that means someone needs to stay in a separate room until they get used to each other.  
 the reason i wanted to make this thread is not only to help some people with their questions, but also because there is this serious question i wanted to ask about my cat, i have a cat named brownie and there are scabs on her neck and back, now i know this is normal since she has fleas but some parts on her scabs look red like she has an infection there or something, i am really starting to worry about her, if you guys know what's wrong with her or why this is happening to her please tell me and if it's something really bad that happened to her please tell me how to help my cat, i really care about my cats and i hope she is okay  
 fleas don't stay on your cat. they go in your carpet, your furniture, and clothes. when the cat is not enough of a source of food, they will start going for you. i've walked into people's houses and had my ankles eaten up like you wouldn't believe. it's incredibly uncomfortable and can seriously overwhelm your cat and make her sick.  so now, you'll need to bug bomb your house and do a thorough cleaning, most likely several times. you'll want to give your cat capstar, which kills everything on her for 24hrs, and follow up with a very approved flea treatment (lasts for one month). you'll still want to monitor for fleas, because it's easy to still miss the eggs and have a new generation pop up.   the cheapest thing you can do is cough up the money for monthly flea treatment, or keep the cat strictly indoors. it's been years since i had to deal with fleas but let me tell you, it is not fun. i had roommates i've who did not give their animals flea treatment and even though i did, the house got so interest that it still wasn't enough to protect him. i had to take the above steps several times before it became manageable, and seriously kept up the vacuuming for months after.  flea collars do nothing, except keep fleas off the head. i had a family cat that barely survived poisoning (caused temporary seizures) from the does stuff you get at grocery stores. i will only use something vet approved, or keep cats inside.  
 oh boy, i would suck up the cost for flea meds. at walmart you can get 4 tubes of advantage 2 for about $52 that is four months of prevention. it is the only one safe for rabbits although it is for cat's. why treating for fleas is a must? fleas cause infection, they also are the #1 reason for tapeworms in cat's. look it up. for the sores , they may heal by themselves if you treat cat and every other animal in home and all rugs.  i would take cat to vet and get it checked out and on salve for the sores or injection if vet prefers.  you cannot sit on this and expect it to go away. your cat could also have mites. a vet could check it out.  but at the very least get some flea meds on all animals and treat your home. and keep treating home until you see no more fleas. just so you know i am not coming down on you, 18 yes ago we had a massive flea infestation and it took 2 months and quite a few $$ to get rid of them. we didn't know the home we moved to had them.  keep us posted  
 well, my cat does scratch and bite her scabs, but we recently just put this stuff on her scabs that's supposed to help heal it but so far i'm not sure if it's working, i really hope that she's fine, but for some reason the rest of my family are not that concerned, i'm starting to get a feeling that soon she might die because of her fleas (and i know that can actually happen) sometimes we flea bomb the house to make sure there's no fleas in the house but then again that doesn't help get rid of my cats fleas. also if fleas really like clean animals why would they be on brownie if we only give her a bath like once a month? also i don't want to trim her nails if what you mean by that is declawing her cause that's straight up wrong! cats need their claws mostly for defending themselves, anyway thanks for telling me!   
 hello!  the title is pretty straightforward so i'm looking for a bit of advice. i've had my cats, 2 brothers, since they were 3 months old; they're 11 months old now. first few months with them were great and until they started peeing everywhere. we got them checked out and neutered and everything was fine - until they started peeing everywhere again. they'll pee on counters and clothes and just basically anywhere they can get their paws on. we took them to the vet again and they said that it was behavioral issues.   right now, we are facing a big cross-country move and i have always been convinced that i wouldn't be the person who gave up their cats but now my grandma is pressuring me to do it now with the move and the fact that the peeing is still a problem. and the worst part that has me feeling terrible is the fact that i do feel that they would be better in another home. they're still young enough that they wouldn't be affected too much and they could have a better life with another family.   what do you all think? our home life is terrible at the moment with most of the arguments revolving around the cats. i want them to have a great life with us and i would love to keep them and truly be their forever home, but my grandma is really pressing the issue and i can't afford to leave home yet.   sorry if this isn't the right place for this. i'm just freaking out and i feel like i'm out of options. thank you for reading and your help in advance.  
 hello,  i have four cats in my home. two males (brothers, neutered) that are 14 years old. about two years ago i brought a female (spayed) into the home. she was 1 year old at the time, and will actually be turning 3 years old this friday. there was a little fighting, but beyond that they co-exist and even cuddle.   this past summer, my brother had his female cat (spayed) here while he and his girlfriend were away for school. this female cat and my cat became very close friends. this past august, he took his cat to his new apartment. my female cat had been lonely since she didn't have someone young to play with.  this past september, i adopted a female cat (spayed) who was estimated at 10 months old. she and the 3 year old had a rough start, but had gotten to the point where they were beginning to bathe each other and cuddle.  all of the sudden, (within the last week or so) the 10 month year old kitten is trying to fight my 3 year old cat. it isn't playful aggression, it's very malicious. there is lots of hissing, yowling, and claws involved. she doesn't chase and attack the two males. my 3 year old cat is terrified of hearing her bell collar and has resorted to hiding in the basement.   i've recently gotten feliway multi-cat diffusers in the house to try to assist with the problem. i've also been trying to tire the 10 month old kitten out by playing with her. i've been giving them equal attention, but for some reason the kitten just suddenly hates her.   i'm open to any advice. i love them both dearly and really hate to see my one so terrified and the other so angry.  
 well, i'm sold. she's adorable, and by the looks of her expression and her collar...she knows it.   that picture shows a queen-ish presence. she tolerates company but usually doesn't seek it, and demands respect from her slaves and minions.    
 she does know it. however, she does seek attention. she's currently rubbing up against me purring really loudly. i'm waiting for her to jump off my lap and turn off my computer (again).    tarasgirl06 said: ↑  oh yeah, @vilali and @1 bruce 1. she's calico. that explains much.click to expand...  i probably should have mentioned that minerva is indeed a calico, haha. juno (the 3 year old) is a patch tabby, so she's primarily tabby but you can see that she's got some calico in her. some people call that a tabico?   
 tabico, calaby -- they do get creative with these designations. i have shared life with a calico beauty, a definite calaby angel, and still do with a tortoiseshell treasure. all are gorgeous. all are colorful.    *top to bottom: calico angel maryam, calaby angel corrie, and my torti treasure tarifa*   
 calaby looks like baby girl.  this explains everything!  
 "bat eared whapping tortle" is her official new nicname! i've had calico and tortie cats in the past that were just the definition of sweetness. one tortie i had when i was a kid was the most easily handled, loving little thing that wouldn't have known attitude had it bit her in the fanny and she only lived about 9 years.  one calico was so sweet and affectionate but had an obsession with anything on any high surface, and if something (a paper, a cup of coffee, a can of beer) was on a counter, she had to knock it over and gaze at her results.  baby girl here has the most snitty, "my way or the high way, all about me, look at me, everyone sucks except me" attitude, sometimes...and sometimes she's the most affectionate, loving, sweet cat i've ever had (probably why i'm so attached to this little ragamuffin.) she's also smart as a whip and learned her name, learned how to sit and sit "pretty" (sit up) and fetch. it blows people away when you show them that your cat knows how to sit and fetch. i'm sold on tortie-tude.   
 yeah, tarifa's definitely a bewt. i keep asking her who she got those ears from. (i love them). and she is our resident lion queen, keeping us supplied with fresh (sparkle/twinkle ball) prey daily, sometimes more than one. the big purple one is her favorite, followed by the rather sparse silver and white one and then the nice big gold one. i don't know how we'd survive without her hunting skills and generosity. she'll catch one and then parade it down the long hall that runs the length of the house, yowling with it in her mouth. sometimes she'll drop it right by me, and other times it'll be somewhere close.   
 oh yeah, that low cry! i know that one! and yes, i do that with tar, too. they say cats do this to show you how to hunt because to them, humans are really hopeless hunters.  i love when they kick, bite and lick the toys! that's the best.   
 in keeping with the thread title, his aggression towards his own butt and tail was something we noticed. he'd zone out, stare off into space, then do a little angry cat yell and go after his tail. he'd sit there, staring at nothing, tail swishing, ears back (like there was something "back there") then attack it again and we were kind of thinking "wow, he's weird. cats are funny when they do weird stuff" but when i woke up to a blood piercing scream and a cat with a horribly bloodied tail that wouldn't allow anyone to touch him, off to the vet we went. later, when i could handle him once he'd calmed down, there was a 6 inch long scab running down the top of his tail that was sensitive to touch and obviously sore. he had such a beautiful full, fluffy tail, his crowning glory, and the years of pulling the fur out during his flare up times has left it looking a bit like charlie browns christmas tree.   
 i have a kitty that gets extremely upset and anytime my husband or i are in the bathroom...brushing our teeth, showering, or even just walking in and standing in the bathroom makes him upset. he meows and wines and talks.  any way we could help him or if someone could maybe explain his strange behavior?  
 never tried the faucet. we'll have to give it a go.  
 hi. could you just pick him up and put him in the bathroom? maybe sit him on the toilet tank top? feeby will go there by herself and sit when either my husband or i are taking a shower.  
 if he's less than a year old and you have the fuzzy seat cover on the toilet, keep an eye on it. sweet gum pulled out a inch square section of the fuzzy fibers. i put it away until she was two and she didn't bother it again, though she sleeps on it. i never found the fibers so i think she processed them.  
 does he get upset when the water starts running for the faucet/toilet/bathtub? coco enjoys checking out the bathroom even when nobody is in there, but as soon as she hears water running, she makes a quick exit.   
 do you feed her any dry? you could throw one piece at a time for her to run for. this will exercise her and she will enjoy the food.  
 hi @mayabear! i remember some of your other threads about her asthma. maya is about 5 years old, is that right?  my first thoughts might be that it could be the medication. is she mainly on pred, but with occasional terbutaline use if she is having a day or so of asthma attacks? or does she use the terb a lot more each day, too? i know this page (feline asthma & other respiratory disorders ) mentions that some cat owners have found that their cat is a bit spacey when on terbutaline. (i suppose, that depends on the dose and amount per day, et cetera?)  maybe it's time to note down in a daily journal maya's activity levels or any other things that are concerning you, and arrange for a vet check-up with blood panels and urinalysis, etc. has it been about 5-6 months since last vet visit? maybe you could talk with your vet about maya, and see if the dosages or amounts of the terbutaline (or pred) are still addressing her asthma in the most beneficial way?  my own cat is on a bit of pred (and flovent) daily, and we make sure to get her in for blood work about every 6-8 months, just to make sure her health is not showing any warning signs or issues from being on the asthma meds. my cat is about 3- 1/2 yrs old.    
 you could try a puzzle toy where you hide treats inside the toy, and she has to bat the toy around to get the treats out.  would getting a second cat so that she has another kitty to play with be an option?  
 hi! i'm with @pushpurrcatpaws i would definitely talk with your vet. also, do you have an air cleaner? were you able to try and address the source of the problem in your apartment that seemed to be causing breathing issues beyond the heartworm (that was it, right)?  
 the catnip cigar, banana, pepper, etc. is the only thing she likes once in a while.  she'll get in a box for a minute then is done with it. i tried foil balls, paper balls, etc. she'll look at it and then just sit there.    
 she would probably like the puzzle board with treats; we have 2 that she loves, but she figures them out quickly; 5 minutes and she's done and she's like, "now what?" i guess i just imagine her playing on her own sometimes or wanting to do something other than eat. unfortunately she probably wouldn't do well with another cat. she was moved out of her foster home when she was a kitten because she was not doing well with the other animals. when i saw her adoption ad online it said she wanted to be the only animal of the house.    
 i've had my cat since he was a baby and he's about five years old. i recently moved into an apartment with 3 other roommates. my cat has no problem roaming around my room and isn't shy when he's in it. however, he refuses to leave or even step one foot outside the doorway. if i try to bring him out he squirms until i place him back down and then he runs back in. i've given up on trying to make him come out like that. it's been almost two months. my other roommate has a cat but back at my other house we had another cat whom he had no problem with. then another roommate brought her bunny over, although he never left my room before it arrived either. he's a very friendly boy but also very shy and skittish. he seems like to my roommates as well. how can i get him to venture out without stressing him?  
 is there a reason he can't stay in your room if that makes him feel safe and comfortable?  
  here is rocco and stewart. rocco is on the left.  
 awww... gorgeous kitties.   my family had a kitten that gnawed on a cardboard box when it was getting its adult teeth, but never had an adult cat with a chewing obsession. tcs does have this article on how to stop problem chewing in cats that might be helpful.  
 i have one now that will chew tape whenever and cords when bored (although this seems to have stopped). i had one in the past that would eat plastic when hungry. i've not had a dedicated cardboard chewer, but supposedly that is another common one. cat aren't dogs, but some do like to chew certain kinds of stuff.  as far as harmful, well probably not, but better safe than sorry. get different scratchers and try to watch the cardboard boxes. i know cardboard is everywhere, had that problem with my plastic eater, and my tape chewer will often find tape that i didn't think of. but i'd definitely do the best you can to prevent it.  you can certainly try the stuff in the article @rubysmama linked too, but i think sometimes these things are just stray habits, and you can eliminate them just by removing the temptation. it is obviously different if its something like electrical cords, but for something like cardboard, just attack the opportunity is my suggestion.  
 the main reason the boxes started by the chair was to keep him from scratching it plus stewart liked hiding under them we used to have a blanket over it but he would pull that down. i have no idea how long he had been out or his background. at least he doesn’t chew anything else. i’ll have to think of something else by the chair.  
 i would do that except it is a recliner and the cushion doesn’t come off thanks for the idea though  
 it is attached on the bottom but the back is opened the dowel rod might just work!  
 chewing and spitting out hunks of cardboard or paper is pretty common and i think it acts as kind of a stress reliever for some cats kind of like bubble wrap popping for people. as long as they don’t eat any of it it’s okay. my willow loves to tear paper and strips off cardboard. it is kind of messy but otherwise i am fine with it. in the days of thick annual telephone books i use to leave an old one the floor and let the cats tear and scratch the pages to their hearts content. one of them would sit on top of it and just gently riffle the pages with her paws for long periods of time which seemed odd but apparently made her happy..  
 i have 2 almost 5 month old male kittens that i had neutered on tuesday. the vet told me to keep them separated so i have and both of them have been incistently meowing ever since. it’s hard being a single working person to spend time with them separately. i tried introducing them back together yesterday however they were skiddish and didn’t seem to recognize each other. one of them puffed up and hissed at the other. prior to the operation they were constantly together. will they ever be able to be back to the bonded pair that they were and what’s the best way to reintroduce them back together?  
 it can take a couple of weeks for cats to get accustomed to each other. they are territorial by nature. these articles are very helpful:   how to successfully introduce cats: the ultimate guide  how to fix an unsuccessful cat introduction  
 hi! maybe this will help as well, and hopefully some other members will come in for you;  you, your cat and stress  
 how did you introduce them?  
 it’s been just about three months now; i know it takes a while and this isn’t unheard of, i’m just hoping to hear something long-process success stories!    elphaba09 said: ↑  how did you introduce them?click to expand...  it’s been a long 3 months lol. at the beginning they seemed to be doing really well, but as soon as i actually let them interact maui sort of chased after coffee and i think that has set the tone for their relationship  they get some supervised time together most days but it’s usually coffee hissing and growling and sometimes escalates to a fight (no claws just loud protests)  i don’t know if i need to separate and reintroduce (would be a huge bummer if so but maybe the best course of action) and i also don’t know what “separate” would entail exactly - no visual for a while (how long?), but still scent? no scent at all somehow?   
  this is the view from our doorway. if anyone knows how to construct a kitty barrier halfway down this front set of stairs i’m all ears!!  
 yes, they are both fixed and neither declawed. i do think they both have confidence issues; even though maui seems well adjusted most of the time, she does have some other problems. she has some inappropriate urination issues, ranging from either once a day or once every other day. when we first got her, she was set up in the spare room, and during the day she would be in there while coffee had run of the house. she was using the floor as her litter box religiously (she usually pees three or four times a day), even though she would poop in the box. now that she is out during a lot of the day and she sleeps with our roommate, i'm finding that she does it less, but still sometimes - more like once every other day (which is a huge upgrade from 4 pees a day, i guess).  the vet prescribed gabapentin for stress, for maui daily and coffee a smaller dose "as needed," like before one of their meetings. at at first i thought it was helping with the urination, but i'm not so sure anymore. at first it seemed like her issues were becoming even less frequent, but then i realized she has peed on the landing (the only carpet in the house, of course) a couple times, and i'm not sure how many times she has done this while i've been out and it has dried... so i'm not sure if it's actually helping, or if just sleeping with our roommate and being allowed out is. i think administering it to her is stressful for her, so i don't know whether or not i should continue with it. it definitely makes their meetings a little more low-key, though.  i'm hoping that getting them used to each other, and largely taking away that stress of hating each other, will help with the peeing. i just am worried that the longer this takes the more she will get used to "going" wherever she wants, and its will be a harder habit to break...   
 thanks! i did end up opening the door a couple days ago and they are getting along well! maynard is still unsure of katie and he wrestles with her a lot. she hisses every now and then if he plays too rough and i separate them if i find he's getting too dominating.   
 @karenkat thank you so much for your responses! they have given me hope for a somewhat cordial future... i put up a screen door outside my bedroom, so they are able to look at each other if they want to... so far coffee has not utilized it much, but maui stands on the other side meowing quite frequently (especially if i'm in here) now, i'm trying to find her reasoning for peeing outside the litter box... when it comes to the landing, i find that if i am in here with coffee and not paying attention to her when she meows, because it's always still warm when i come down and it's just a little dribble so she's really just being a brat. i do think (well, hope) that once she and coffee are getting along better the peeing on the landing will cease as she will not be restricted on where she goes. i think that really annoys her, being locked out of somewhere. i also think that leaving her alone in the house during the day (with no one home at all) prompts her to pee on the tile floor downstairs, right in front of either the front door or the garage door... not sure what to do. i think i will invest in some puppy pads and try to teach her to use those and then slowly work our way into a litter box with the pee pads, then hopefully work up to a normal set up? the thing is that she knows how to use a litter box, she always uses it up in her own room during the night. maybe i should try crating her when no one is home and then having the pee pads for when we're all here and maybe she feels she's not getting enough attention despite that? i don't know... any advice? it would be easier if i could figure out why she does it.  
 hello! simon is a 2 1/2 year old boy who has lived with me since last christmas. he was previously an indoor/outdoor cat and is now fully an indoor cat. he had no problems with using the litter box for the first 6 months i had him. all of a sudden, he started urinating and defecating outside of the box. he defecates directly outside of the box, and urinates a few feet away. he only goes in the basement (where the boxes are) and not upstairs. i have tried everything, moving the boxes to the places he goes, adding another litter box, filling the boxes with more litter, putting cat nip in the boxes to attract them, spraying vinegar where he goes outside of the boxes. nothing seems to work. it's as though he prefers the floor. there have been no changes to his diet/litter, and the boxes are the same ones. he plays with his brother and sister every night and is very social and loving. the only difference is that i got a full time job, and we also started finishing our basement around the same time which is when this started but it's been since june. please help, i don't want to get rid of him but the smell is becoming unbearable.  
 once a day may not be often enough - it wasn't for one of our previous cats. and have you had him checked for utis? have you tried cat attract litter?  we put a huge xl kennel tray around the cat box, so if he went outside of it, it was easy to clean. ultimately we started putting litter in the tray, and now we use the tray with litter but without the box, and put sheet vinyl flooring under it that sticks out a ways. that's made huge improvements for us.  
 i haven't had him checked for uti's because he goes 1 & 2 and it's only in the basement, no where else in the house.  
 what's his diet like, is he getting enough canned food?  
 what's her diet like, is she getting canned food every day? my female cat does this when she's constipated. hairball treats or paste every other day can also help with constipation, if that's the problem.  
 hi cat community,  my 1.5 year old cat has been acting scared for the past 2 days. she is an indoor/outdoor cat. yesterday morning, she suddenly bolted out of the house in the middle of eating. i figured she smelled or heard something. we live in an area where stray or feral cats sometimes come through the yard and lately a stray has been sitting by the front door. i didn't hear anything unusual, but suddenly my cat was crounching and on the lookout. i went to work and when i came home, same behavior. she won't come back in the house. even when i offer her treats that she usually runs for, she won't come near the house. i sat outside with her for hours so she could sit in my lap and at least relax a little and feel safe for that time. she seems somewhat less on edge today but still crouching around and won't come near the front door. the way she is hesitant to come to the door or inside makes me wonder if she was attacked or had something traumatic happen there. what do you think this could be? if anyone had this happen to to your cat, i would be happy to hear how long until it passed .  
 my girl does this every now and then, also indoor/outdoor. usually it's something about the particular door so if i open a different door she will come through that one without a problem. my house has five doors to the outside though so i have options. you could try opening a window and making a path to the window, she may come in that way. worst case, pick her up and carry her it.   with my girl, it usually takes about a week until things are good again. i am not sure what specifically causes it but my guess has been other animals marking around the door or something startled her and survival instinct kicks in.  
 here are some of the things to consider when a cat stops using their box:  - is it a health issue? when is the last time she saw the vet? is she eating and drinking as usually?  - can she see or smell other animals and is she marking her territory?  - has her/your routine changed? have you changed soap/perfume or spent time around new scents? if so it could be stress.  while you are investigating get a few more litter boxes and put them around. clean with an enzyme cleaner to make sure you get rid of the scent on what you can. get a blacklight to make sure you've found all her spots.  she still loves you. there is just something that is causing a stress right now. give her lots of love and play.  
 @susanm9006 was faster than me.   
 its either uti, other cats are near by or she is stressed or in heat.  go to the vet asap to check if it's uti since it's deadly in cats.   good luck.  
 it's quite possible the behaviour is caused by stress, however, it would be best to be able to rule out a medical issue first. here's a link that might be helpful: no money for vet care? how to find help and save your cat's life  as well as a few articles on cats and stress.  is your cat stressed out? you, your cat and stress potential stressors in cats - the ultimate checklist six surefire strategies to reduce stress in cats  
 hi!  it's going to take more time, both of ignoring him, and also playing with him, if this helps;  playing with your cat: 10 things you need to know  
 my cat ziggy is 9 years old now. he used to drink out of the faucet, so i kept it running. then i switched to giving him water by hand by hand-pouring water into a bowl, which he then drank out of the pouring water. my cat was diagnosed with a bladder stone last year, and his diet cleared up the stone. but since then, ive tried 2 different water fountains with no luck. he was not interested in the fountains at all. in fact, he was scared of the 2nd fountain (the largest one, it was very expensive too). im afraid that my cat will get another bladder stone if i cant find a way to get him to drink on his own. i dont want to go back to running the faucet all day, but i might have to. he is a very picky cat. he asks me twice a day to give him water, but i know he needs to be drinking much more than he is. the only idea i have seen is to add tuna or broth to a water bowl and try to train him in that way. what do you guys think?  
 what are you feeding him? dry kibble or canned? if it is kibble, he will need to drink more than if he is is eating canned. the canned provides more water when it is digested.  
 did his diet change involve changing to mostly canned food? if so, as @archycat mentioned, wet food is mostly water, so cats who eat mostly canned food don't drink as much water.  my ruby eats mostly canned, with kibble as treats, and she doesn't drink water too often. i do sometimes add a teaspoon or so to her canned food when i feed her, especially in the summer when it is hot and humid. sometimes i actually mix it in. other times i just pour it around the food, and as she licks up the wet food, she licks up the water too.   ziggy is gorgeous, btw.   
 one of mine preferred hot bath water over any other source. i used to have to wait until she was done drinking before i could soap up.  
 i have the flower catit i posted earlier in the thread.   
 thanks! i am going to look into these and purchase one of them and see if he will use it.   
 does anyone know how i can edit a comment and. post affect i have clicked post already?  
 why not bone stock? i freeze a lot of bones and when i have a couple pounds, they get covered in water in the crock pot and simmered for 24 hours.  you can make a meat broth by covering meat with water. bring it up to a simmer, then turn the heat down to maintain a slow simmer. with a meat broth, you only need an hour or two (until the meat is done) since you aren't trying to extract the gelatin and minerals as you are doing with bone stock. you're just extracting "meat flavor" into the water, so you don't need extended hours of simmering.  with either broth or stock, you can refrigerate, scoop the solidified fat off the top, then freeze the stock or broth in containers. for your cat, you might try freezing in ice cube trays.   
 yes, you can boil pork chops. unseasoned boiled meat does end up bland and mushy, imo. (that's why i tend to trim the meat off bones to cook for myself, or make raw pet food, and simmer only the salvaged bones for bone stock.)  you can somewhat salvage boiled meat used to make a meat broth, by mixing it with bbq sauce, or chopping it, seasoning and using it for tacos, or baking it into a casserole, or scrambled eggs, etc. or save some of the broth and pork to season for a pot of beans or pork and bean soup.  you don't want to add any seasoning to broth or stock for the cats, so then you have to get creative to make the meat edible for yourself afterward. not as tasty as pan-fried pork chops (), but you can make it edible.  
 ...and i was just thinking...  before you risk pounds of meat, you might want to try simmering just one chop in a little bit of water to see if your cat likes it. my senior cat absolutely won't touch any of my stocks, one cat is "so-so", and only one cat (and the dog) enjoy stock.  
 thank you so much orange&white. thats what i'll do. he isn't interested in stock right now, just "tuna juice" which i cant give to him anymore because of his stones, so the stock that i make will need to be as flavorful and concentrated as the tuna juice is. ...its a lot of work. but im gonna begin with the faucet attachment idea, there are 2 i found that i like on amazon.  
 he will not drink bottled water out of his fountain. he has drank out of the faucet and out of my hand, up on the bathroom counter, for his entire life. he is 9 years old. i would not scare him away from the only thing he has ever known. the bathroom sink is the best place for him to get water because it's well lit and clean.  
 you need to have 20 posts before you can edit things. once you have 20 post you will be able to see the word edit at the bottom of your post. you click the word edit.   
 our cat, who has been at our house now for nearly one week, has begun neglecting the litterbox. he used his litterbox to an exact science prior to this.   the first accident was a pee on top of a plastic bag on the bottom row of our shelf. (it contained violin notes and such, i joke about how he wanted to sabotage my violin playing.) that accident was yesterday.  this morning, we discovered two fresh poops behind our small sofa. they were slightly runny, but not diahrea. right now we are in the process of cleaning them up.  our cat (thor) still used the litterbox. i put him in it this morning and he peed. he is almost 10 weeks old now, though small for his age, and he was previously a barn cat.  on wednesday this week, we had him dewormed at the vet. it was a topical treatment that covered most worms i believe.   he is eating well and is playful, very curious and lively.   we have the litterbox in our living room, and we are planning on slowly moving it to the bathroom. is it possible he wants privacy? it is hard to find a private spot for the box in the living room, but there are many places where he could sneak into to pee.  
 just one cat! sorry for being unclear.   we've just washed the litterbox and refilled it, but we need to go and buy more litter.   he's very short and it takes some effort from him to get in tbe box, we might also buy a box with shorter sides.   when we get that box we will try experimenting with different locations and such.  
 i would definitely buy a second box with lower sides. maybe he has gotten tired of putting so much effort to get in and out!! lol.  also, keep an eye on the consistency of the poop, since you said it is slightly loose. all my cats were much older when i got them, so i don't know if less-than-firm bowels might be fairly normal for a 10 week old kitten.  
 will do!  
 quick update: last night he pooped in the litterbox, but he accidentally dragged the poop out with him (still not sure how that happened). we had to gove him a shower....  we filled a small bin with litter and put it in the bathroom. he used it to poop and pee over the course of the night. so far so good!  right now he's in my lap and purring.  
 hellooo i am back for like the third time with another problem i'm having with the same kitten. he's about 4 months old and will not use his litter box he has used it but for only like a week and evey time he did i would give him a little treat but when he did use the litter box he only pooped in it but would never urinate in it, but now once again he wont use his litter box to even poop! i have literally tried everything from changing his litter, putting multiple boxes in the room, and putting him in the box just so he can get the idea of it. he is a hyper kitten who is always running around so i know he is not sick or anything. i dont know what to do and am starting to really get fed up but i dont wanna have abandon him. please any help would be appreciated.  
 aww hope your cat is okay ( i will definitely try the covered litter boxes to see if it has an effect on him or not. i will also try the puppy pads in a litter box. thank you so much for these tips hopefully one of these will work!   
 hi! i've read everything from citrus (spray, peels) to furniture polish spray all of which need re-applying after rain/time, and/or a motion activated sprinkler although if you're headed into winter that won't work   
 is it a stray that needs help, or does it have an owner?  
 thanks for all the replies on this, i'm hoping that time will be the answer. my fiancé has mental health issues and gets impatient fast and frankie's behaviour is making him feel really down and the kitten has bonded hard to me rather than him too which isn't helping the situation. i'll keep the board posted on any outcomes!  
 they eat together with no issue, i can't play with them at the same time because of vinny's insane energy haha, frankie hasn't got a chance to bat the toy before vinny has run away with it!   
 i thought i'd bump this thread with an update, in case it's helpful to anyone else. sooo, after many weeks of the same issues, frankie started to come round! i've had 2 feliway's plugged in full time and started moving vinny away from frankie when he started bothering him and shutting him out of the room for a timeout. he seemed to get the picture and the pouncing and biting slowed down and as vinny has gotten bigger, frankie seems happier to defend himself (maybe he didn't want to before as vinny was super tiny and easier to hurt) and after 1.5 months of vinny being here, i'm very pleased to announce that they have made friends, they wash each other, play and sleep in a pile! there's still a bit of roughhousing but it's mutual rather than frankie feeling harassed all the time. i've attached a lovely picture of them that i took yesterday!   
 oh my goodness what a wonderful update!! and just look at those ears lol! ...made my whole day   
 ah thanks, i'm so so relieved and happy!   
 i do think you are correct about frankie giving vinny some leeway because of his age. that is pretty common behavior with adult cats and kittens, sort of a built in instinct not to hurt them. it’s good for both of them though when the older can apply some discipline and the youngster can become more respectful. looks like you now have two best buddies.  
 aha yes, his ears have always been so cute! this is a picture of him from when he was about 2 months old before his ears popped up, he looked like a gremlin for ages!    
 hi! welcome!! try putting uncovered litter boxes where her covered boxes were, at least for one of them, with that pellet litter in it and see how she reacts.  
 thank you for responding. we thought of that also but have the same concerns. we haven't spoken to our veterinarian yet.  thanks again!   
 hi! she is detecting something, a cat, possum, raccoon, something that's leaving by the time you get there. can you cover the window with a temporary nonstick covering so she can't see whatever it is?  
 hi. she has calmed down now and is sleeping on my bed. it probably was an animal. i closed the windows and shut the blinds and it worked for now. thanks for the reply.   
 oh yes! i forgot to add that i've purchased claw clippers but i still can't even get a collar on her, she scratched me when i tried to even pull her into my lap...so i don't know how soon i'll be able to actually clip her claws.  
 is he just playing rough, maybe? biting of back ends is fairly common in rough play and i've never heard of it being done during mating rituals. how do the girls respond when he does it?  anyway, yes, i'd also recommend keeping them separated from the other cats after surgery, until they're reasonably healed. 10-14 days, usually.  
 keep them separated, please. after the spay incisions heal, then you can carefully see if his behavior has changed with them, but this can't continue.  never mind the actual physical harm he's doing, the stress factor for the victim kitties is off the chart, and is also bad for their emotional as well as physical health.  
 i've talked to everyone and we're going to keep him upstairs and the rest down when they're fixed. the other males can go hang with him but the girls will stay down stairs.  hopefully, it'll help and when they're all healed we'll see how he is.   
 good for you!! hang in there, i'm sending lots of heal-fast, and behave yourself silly boy from now on!!, thoughts!  
 you might want to google "gay animals". watching some videos might be helpful since you seem a bit confused by what is involved...  
 why do you assume he is being "gay" and not just that he is being "fatherly" toward the kitten? it isn't abnormal behavior.  
 do your neighbors know cats aren't religuous? lol sorry couldn't resist.  
 seriously?? wow, you learn something new everyday!   
 don't tell your neighbors @chromodactyl, but two of our feral colony males are sleeping together in our feral cat shelter as i write...    
 i guess what you are talking about here is your cat scruffing the neighbour's cat (biting him at the back of the neck) and then attempting to hump him.   this is how male cats show their dominance of one another. it looks sexual, but in fact it's just one male showing the other that he is more powerful and so he is the "boss". even cats who get on well with each other do this. i care for a colony of semi-ferals and some of the male cats do it to the other males, some do it to the females.  (they've all been fixed for years now, but this doesn't make any difference to the non-sexual submissive/dominant behaviour within a colony of cats.)  i understand that london is a very multi-cultural city and your neighbour's probably have very different religious views to you, but maybe you could explain to them what this behaviour is.   keeping your cat indoors is a good idea anyway. it's too dangerous for cats to be allowed out to roam around on their own. too much traffic, too many dogs and urban foxes in london for a start.   
 just a reminder that if you have an issue with a post to please flag it instead of commenting in the thread.   
 thank you @norachan for explaining clearer than i was able to.   
 i used to have a male cat that would let his younger brother nurse off him (same mom, different litters). it went on for months, and the younger cat was really loud about it, it sounded like he was going to suck that cats nipple right off. definitely weird but not gay.  
 hello and welcome to tcs.  congrats on your recent marriage, and new house.  and pending arrival of your family cat.   at 12 years of age, and with her past experiences with other cats, i would definitely wait until she is completely settled in her new home before even considering getting other cats. and then consider carefully whether more cats is a good idea or not. some cats are just meant to be only cats. and the stress of sharing their home with other felines can cause litter box issues, aggression issues, etc.  if you do decide to adopt one or more cats, be prepared to keep them separated at first, and to do a slow introduction with your 12 year old.   here is an article on your second cat: how to choose the best friend for kitty which may be helpful.  also a couple with tips on introducing cats:  how to successfully introduce cats: the ultimate guide how to introduce a kitten to an older cat  
 hey all,  i have three cats (two bengals, one old/deaf typical housecat). took the housecat and one bengal to vet, and of course upon returning the typical non-recognition aggression began. not new to this usually. a week later, took the other bengal. it's now been another week, and they are still behaving weird.  we leave for europe on friday for two weeks - the problem is, one bengal corners the other and she gets so scared she pees everywhere, all over the hardwood. sounds like wildcat wars. i don't remember it being this bad, and don't remember it lasting this long (then again we usually bring the bengals for their yearly checkup at the same time).  if i have to separate one in a small room for two weeks with a sitter coming by once a day, is this going to just make matters worse? i really can't think of any other options if they don't get better, and i'm not going to cancel our super expensive trip over it obviously.  another thing to note: they'll eat off the same plate as each other and sniff each other without warring. it's usually around 3am when we are woken up by terrible screaming / fighting / stalking, leading to separation. we set up two diffusers yesterday in a desperate attempt to stop this before we go to europe, and plan to try leaving them out again tonight.  and the housecat doesn't care, she's deaf and oblivious to what they're doing. poor thing   bengals are only 10-12% bengal, so they aren't f1's or f2's or anything.  thanks in advance! any advice would be great. or commiserating. that helps too.  
 spending time with her couldn't hurt, unless he's angry, annoyed, or frustrated with her or someone else while he's around her. kit's don't seem to see passed those emotions easily.  
 hello all - i am having a really hard time getting my 9-month old female cat to stop peeing on my bed. she will even pee on us while we are sleeping. i have read a lot of threads on this subject with tons of helpful advice. i am wondering though, is there anyone out there that had this issue and was able to stop it? i am getting very upset and could really use some hope. thank you.  
 start with a vet visit and rule out medical reasons. sometimes inappropriate litterbox habits have nothing to do with the litter box. my krista used to pee the walls. i thought it was behavioral. i bought cbd oil, feliway, enzyme cleaners, and tarped off the area. i tried so many things for so many months until i finally took her into the vet. her teeth were bothering her. the inappropriate peeing was a cry for help. we extracted the bad teeth and she stopped peeing outside the box. save her and yourself the trouble (and the guilt) and rule out medical reasons first!  
 i agree with the above. get the medical checked out first to rule it out, she may have a urinary tract/bladder infection. if she hasn't been spayed yet, peeing can be a symptom of her heat cycle, as is non ending meowing. cats pee inappropriately when something is scaring/bothering them. some change in their life. litter change, box change, food change, new cat in the neighborhood they see from the window, new boyfriend, new neighbors, smells you may be carrying home, or a change in your hours or routine, something is bothering her. once you find out what the change is, if it can be changed, change it. if it can't be, like a move, or change in your routine, the behavior will stop once she gets used to it. i know it's really frustrating, i've been there, and it took over 9 months for my boy to stop after a move, but try to give her extra attention and reassurance. cats don't do this for spite, they do it because they are that scared and trying to make something more familiar to them, to mark it with something familiar. i fro now would see where she goes and make it so it's easier to clean up. get a waterproof backed mattress pad and throw it over your bed at night. if she goes in a corner somewhere, get some clear carpet runner with those little nubs on the back and put it nub side up, it keeps them from going there. i didn't think my boy would ever quit, but he did, so there is an end. get a good enzyme cleaner for cat urine to make cleanup easier. good luck!  
 my tomcat pees on bed and on the room corners.   when the vet gave him antibiotics for an eye infection, he returns to the litter box. for two days only.   some say he struggles to get outside the flat (being integer male cat, he wants to go mating).  three vet visits and nothing suspicious. however, i suspect a medical reason.  a very strange thing is that he would pee immediately on any plastic bag left unattended on the floor. bizarre.   i plan a second opinion of another vet.  
  my persian "shaniko" was a faithful litterbox user so when he peed on my bed i was surprised but it only happened once. shortly thereafter i noticed he was having trouble peeing so off to the vet we went. he was only six years old and unfortunately had to be put down due to kidney failure. by peeing on the bed he was trying to tell me that he was sick; damn, how many times do we wish our pets could talk to us???   
 this is such a not-fun situation! i'm sure it will all work out, but it is so frustrating and difficult to go through.  i have just a couple of thoughts from an experience we had with a cat peeing on the bed several years ago. after doing all the usual things (checking for medical reasons, adding another litter box, using a waterproof mattress pad, blocking access by putting things on the bed during the day, keeping the door closed, etc., etc.), we had a vet visit and the cat was put on amitriptyline. there was a transdermal cream option and we just would rub a tiny amount on her ear. it worked well. we also switched to cat attract litter, which seems to draw cats like a magnet! it is more expensive, but was worth every penny and you can eventually mix it with other litter if you want.  
 this is, unfortunately, not an uncommon problem. there are so many causes that trigger inappropriate peeing, that are frustrating and expensive. my cat was blocked a few years ago, and has since been on phenobarbital and an rx diet ever since. however, he has now started peeing on me again. 4 times just this week! my roommate gets put out by the comforter-washing, and frankly, i get tired of having to wash them every other day. we are going to the vet friday, and hope the vet can figure this out. until then, i am sleeping covered by light plastic sheeting! lol  
 that is great that you got him back! it is hard to say how quickly or if he will ever fully return to his old self. i would most definitely keep him indoors only until he gets reestablished in your household and introduce him as you would any stranger cat to your others. this means keeping him separate from,then and introducing him through scent and sight very slowly.  
 hi! welcome!! he remembers you and his former surroundings, definitely, especially because he's sticking around. the new cat won't prevent his personality from returning...your description sounds to me that as mentioned, he needs a vet visit. something is not right.     
 it's wonderful that you got him back! i think the fact that he returned to you is a very good sign; so i'd also agree with those who say that he's probably just re-adjusting to your home. i would also agree with those who said that a visit to the vet would be good to check up on him.  at least he did get some human care whilst he was away from you and from nice humans at that, too   
 this is likely just normal hyper kitten wanting to play play play. they will quite often not respect an older cat's wishes unless the older cat is ready to enforce those wishes with a physical lesson, which is something that many older cats seem unable or unwilling to do.   six months is considered somewhat old fashioned these days with five months being common and many vets doing it much earlier. all of that said, it shouldn't be too late if this is an indoor cat and your other cat is taken care of. if your cat starts spraying or something, i would find another vet to do it immediately, but absent that its probably harmless. my recollection is that 20 years ago 6 months was pretty standard.  
 yeah that doesn't sound too bad @krystab - i definitely think your right not to overreact. things should improve over time. and they are actually ok now, if they are cuddling. we always tell people if the only problem is "in play" and the more reluctant cat to play doesn't avoid the "aggressor" at other times, then there is no real problem.  
 i don't know it is a was on the street thing, because even momma cat/home raised kittens can be little terrors. i adopted my most recent kitten from a home with a 3 legged cat -- and yeah, i'm sure that cat was very happy to see the kitten go! i think it is more about the older cat, because the only thing that seems to stop these little terror kittens is an older cat that holds the kitten down until it gets the message. and for whatever reason, many of them lose the ability to do that if they age without young cats constantly around.  
 need opinions of cat experts on this one. as i have posted many times my willow is a former semi feral who is afraid of anything new and can go from fine to hysterical in three seconds. prior to my adopting her seven years ago, age one, she had a failed adoption for being too timid and it was noted not good with other pets. now i am not sure if i should assume that.  i have been feeding a stray who has been hanging around my house for the last few days and this morning when he was eating on the porch willow saw him for the first time. they were only about four feet apart, separated by the patio door. i expected she would growl, hiss or head for a hiding place, but instead she just sat there and then started a bird cackle at him. he looked at her a couple of time, no reaction. she watched and cackled at him until he finished and left and i was a bit stunned by the reaction from both.  so, what do you all think? would you take it as a sign that she may be better with a sibling than i thought?  
 cats will sometimes sit in a litter box when they are upset, as the smell of their own marked territory can soothe them. it is generally a sign of emotional distress.  since it is new, you probably should take your cat to a vet to rule out physical distress. your cat is doing it once she no longer has you to comfort her, so she may be in pain.  my other suggestion ( and i strongly advise you both get your cat checked out and do this), is to make sure that she has a "safe place" that she can go that isn't her litter box. a window perch, cat tree, or even a cardboard box atop a chair all can often work as a place for a cat to feel safe. be sure not to remove them from that place unless absolutely necessary, so that your cat genuinely believes that the place *is* safe.  a place where your cat can feel safe is nearly as important as food, water, and litter. cats generally are happy to share territory with humans (we provide food and safety, but don't compete for resources with them), but even so, they still need a place or three that is just theirs, usually up high and or with some cover and or concealment.  
 also god forbid i leave the room she loses her mind lol.  
 possy, my 2 year old dsh has been a talker since day one. while not a savannah she was talking up a storm immediately. she’s a very vocal cat and will growl and meow and talk to me when i talk to her. it hasn’t really slowed down, but when she was kitten and meowed at times i felt were inappropriate (such as being in her room for breakfast and howling to be let out), i just ignored her entirely. when she stopped meowing, she was let out and praised. same with howling at the pet closet for food. when she quieted down i would get her food out.  otherwise, i’ve come to love her talking. it’s fun to talk to a cat and have them talk back, but i’ve always had a thing for talkative kitties!  
 i’ll give that a try. hopefully it helps some. she does the same thing even does it when she’s eating lol  
   he does have his own room she’s not allowed in. it’s where both he and matilda stay when the foster is out.   unfortunately high spaces don’t protect him. she goes up the cat tree right after him and knocks him down to the ground. he’s never been around an aggressive animal before so he just curls into a ball to protect himself and freezes.   i appreciate the links and will read up!   
  he is eating and using the litter box just fine. it’s mostly the dramatic shift in his personality. he’s always been the boss, but he also doesn’t know how to “cat” very well as he was raised alone. matilda was brought in as an adult 10 months ago and while it took a bit for them to get along there was never violence and she tolerates his playfulness very well.   i appreciate the input and will definitely try going back to square one!   
 @sarat , do you know everyone's ages, particularly the one with "tortitude"?  
 yes, but only within the last 6-7 months.   
 hello,  i have 2 male cats. pablo is a blue russian 3 years old (neutered) and hugo ragdoll 1 year old (not neutered). we noticed a lump on pablo, and we took him to the vet for a checkup. after we returned home we let him out of his cage and he behaved normal, but hugo got very aggressive and started attacking him with such aggression, i couldn't even imagine. we quickly stopped them and thought it was just a 1 time thing, but he kept attacking him until a point pablo was too terrified to be near him, so we separated them in different rooms. we latter learned it was our fault for letting them together so quickly after the vet. but sine then (2 weeks) pablo can't even look at hugo without growling and hissing. 1 week after the incident we took hugo to get neutered as well. hoping that it would help. since then we've been trying to get them together a little at a time, by holding them in the same room, at safe distance in our arms (my wife and i), in hopes they will get used to each other again. hugo seems passive and half curious but shows no sings of aggression, but pablo is same as from the start. we even got some cat pheromones to help, but no progress. he curls up in a ball, stiff and nonstop growling and hissing (attempts last from 10min to 30 min). we fear they could kill each other if we lose track of them for 1 second. we also tried feeding them within eyesight of each other but nothing worked. we are desperate. any ideas or suggestions we can try would be greatly appreciated. thank you.  
   hey everyone! so our story goes like that: we found a kitten on the street. she was tiny and ill. we took her to the vet, and she was diagnosed with chlamydiosis. we gave her treatment during 2 weeks including injections (which she didn't love that much). after just two weeks she was cured and grew like 2 times and changed behavior. her play is getting more and more agressive: she bites, scratches, attacks our dog (a huge dog i might add). she doesn't sleep much at night. instead she bites me and my husband like crazy. i've had a lot of cats before, but never such an aggressive one. she lets us pet herself couple of times a day, but mostly starts biting and scratching again. as far as i read, she may be like that because she didn't get a chance to play with other cats and understand the limits, or because she is stuck home alone some days (like 2 times a week). maybe we lost her trust while giving her injections (although my husband is really good at painless injections). i have two many theories and no ideas on how to change her back to a nice purring kitten... and by the way, there is a huge chance that she is part maine coon (the attached photos doesn't show it much, they were taken couple of weeks ago) i hear they can be pretty aggressive? did anyone had a situation like that? are there any technics/tips on dealing with cat's exetremely aggressive play? thanks!  
 gosh what a cutie and great photos!! i don't know about maine coons being aggressive, i've not read that before. one of the main things to do is try a hiss, just like her mama would do to stop bad behavior. if she's teething you could take a wash cloth (rinsed well if you use scented dryer sheets) wet it and partially freeze it for her to chew on.  how to deal with cat "love bites"?  
 hello! first time poster--i found this site looking for cat advice. i'm super excited to bring home a two-year-old cat today that i adopted from my local humane society.  some context: --she will be the only pet in my home, and it will just be the two of us. she'll be a fully indoor cat.  --she had a rough start to life. in june, she was picked up by animal control on the side of the road and taken to the local humane society. she was overweight, aggressive, fearful, and in pain from bone fragments left from declawing. in august, she had surgery to repair her paws and her pain level seems to have decreased. --she is super energetic and playful. --she is rather aggressive and fearful (can you blame her?). she loves to rub against your legs and nuzzle you with her head, but she can only tolerate being petted for a moment and will not allow you to pick her up. she is very hissy, but does not seem to want to actually bite. she's spent quite a while in the rescue due to her sassiness.   i'm not a first time pet owner, but i've never adopted an adult cat before and she has several needs because of her history. i'm excited to give her a quiet, peaceful home. i'm seeking advice for making her feel safe, for eventually working on her aggression, and for caring for a declawed cat (never had one before and would never have had this done to a cat myself).  
 the trick with cats that aren't instantly friendly is to realize that you have to let them be the boss of the relationship. no picking up, no putting on the lap, no holding in place to "show them how nice it is". instead, you do a few things:  (1) you look for the situations where they will allow petting. often the first situation will be when sleepy. sometimes it will be a spot where you like to sit quietly for a while, like behind your head on the recliner or next to you on the couch. we have even had people mention the bath, since for some people that is a spot where they relax quietly. once you have a spot, you can link that up with treats and a call noise, and hopefully use those cues to encourage them to come to you in similar spots, gradually broadening things;  (2) play with them with toys; and  (3) to the extent possible, have spots where you chill with them, like the tv room or the bed if your a use the phone/read in bed person. try not to vacuum those places when they are around -- this will encourage them to have spots in those places (see 1 above).  basically, you can encourage and lure them to you, but you have to be patient and watch for their cues.  
 i adopted a new shelter cat in january (1 year old neutered male). he is extremely outgoing, vocal and high energy, which he only revealed to us after we brought him home from the shelter. this does not mesh well with our timid resident cat (4 year old spayed female) who has never lived with another cat before.  initial introduction didn't go well and so we are in the process of a very slow reintroduction, but can't seem to get past gated separation stage. they do fine a solid door between them closed and have no negative reaction to each other's scent, but when there is just a tall gate separating them, the cats stare each other down and bat at each other. new cat is very play aggressive and looks at resident cat like she's prey and will try to "hunt" her every opportunity he gets. resident cat wants nothing to do with him and if we let them in the same room together will scream/hiss/spit and then run away from him which escalates things because new cat doesn't take no for an answer. fur will literally fly once he catches up with her until i intervene. there is no competition for food, high ground or boxes. i really just think bullying my resident cat is the most fun thing imaginable to my new cat with his limitless energy.  trying to fix this has completely consumed my life. when i'm not working with them, i'm researching how to work with them. i've tried positive reinforcement for calm behavior, clicker training, correcting bad behavior, distracting him, exhausting him, parallel play and feeding time, feliway diffusers, flower escences as well as many other calming products, but the only thing that has made a very slight difference is having them both on zylkene calming supplement. they still can't be in the same room together, but both cats seem slightly less stressed out now. i continue to augment that with behavior training, structured play & feeding times and swapping spaces.  i get conflicting advice about how to get past this stage of reintroduction. they say to create positive associations when they see each other, but the instant he sees her, he goes into tunnel-vision hunt-mode with his body language, and she slinks away insecurely and i don't want to reinforce that. is there anything i can do to help?  his other bad behaviors include yowling through the night, stealing any kind of food, door-darting, and biting hands and feet. he is not affectionate at all, but does want to be in the same room as people all the time. it's obvious he was an outdoor cat previously, but certainly not feral.   resident cat is also hard to train, as she is not food motivated at all, but her only behavior issue is lack of confidence.  is there any hope for my cats to to coexist with such different personalities? any advice would be greatly appreciated because i feel like i've run out of ideas short of drugging him up or rehoming him. i just want to do what's best for him, but it's not fair to either cat to let things go on this way indefinitely.  ps - adopting a third cat is not an option for us.  thank you so very much for reading this wordy post!   
 "is there any hope for my cats to to coexist with such different personalities?"  yesss!!! but at least in my experience, it means more than 2 cats! i have 4 cats (i did not plan on this, but they adopted me, so what could i do?!?!). one is blue (profile pic), and she has some siamese or tokenese genes....  blue is the exact opposite of my oldest, resident cat, hobo...and they *often* disagree. she is always high-energy, ready to play with everything and everyone....while he just wants to cuddle or sleep. and yet, one day, i found them cuddling together on top of the same tree!!! (see attached)  how is this possible?? i think only because there are two other cats in my house, blue's mother and sister, that provide an outlet for blue's *insane* energy level!  as far as advice for your boy.... - i *really* hate to ask, but, can you let him spend time outside? it seems like he is used to being an indoor/outdoor kitty, and this adjustment of indoor-only is not working for him.  - remember he is only ~1yr old (if i have understood your post , and done the math right). his personality in 1, 2, or 5 years from now might be completely different!!  
 yes he sounds like my punk.... and if dante didn't love being on my lap, follow me around & demand attention ... i probably would have "killed " him by now! or rehomed him! dante 11, salem 12 .... that is 11 years of dante bugging the stuffing out of my sweet calm salem .... and 11 years of driving me nuts/me playing referee! i put up with it because he is affectionate as can be and a hyper goofball when he is in full play mode. so if the cat has no hope of cuddling i might be looking for cuddly kitten and adding a third cat. at that age (1 year) dante was all play/hunting his brother salem. still he demanded lap time, tons of play (6,8,11 times a day) and wanted all my attention. he liked being petted just not for more than 5-10 minutes at a time but he would lay on my lap for an hour.  btw by 5-6 months old he drove me so insane i let him in my backyard with supervision! i trained him to stay in the backyard. bird 'hunting' in the afternoon plus playing with him before bed = relative peace. also my cute little bud didn't calm down until around 7.5 years old!  
 thanks for the update. sorry it didn't work out, but glad to know he's safe, and living with your mom. i guess some cats are just meant to be only pets.  
 hi! try an enzymatic cleaner, and see about getting some cat attract litter. add some unfertilized potting soil to the litter.  also, try just a box with a puppy pee pad in it.  try a calming diffuser, sentry and thunderease have these.  
 i tried the potting soil and they pooped beside it.   
 is it possible for you to set up a safe outdoor enclosure for them with access through a window? then you could set up litter boxes outside? if they are used to going to the bathroom outdoors this might help.  
 my plan as of now is to close off the carport (only 1 side is open) so they can be safely outdoors.  
   
   
 i would get feliway diffusers plugged in. it is likely territory marking and it could simply be due to stress. what changes have happened that may have caused him stress? we brought in a special needs cat that is onery due to having fhs. our senior male started urine marking things when we brought her in and even though 3 years have passed, we can tell if one of the diffusers is empty bc we are sent pee-mail!  i worked a new cat mom through a similar issue with the 2 kittens i fostered. the one male would pee on her young child's clothes sometimes when they were left on the floor. it turned out that grandma had cats and the boy would stay there sometimes then return home with those cats' scents on him. the more dominant of the kittens would pee on his clothes to mark the boy as "his" to let the other cats know this human was already claimed.  they still had a problem every now and then that coincided with visitors coming to their apartment. the kittens were getting used to living inside and at a new home so they were already under stress. i suggested she place them in the laundry room (bc it was their "safe spot" when they first arrived) when guests came over while the kittens were still getting acclimated. that took care of the rest of their pee-mail.  if the cat does not have a uti, peeing outside the box is usualy a message to tell mom that they are not happy about something.  
 nox went 2 weeks without another incident and just today peed in a brand new bag of clothes that my brother bought. the last 3 times he's peed inappropriately have been when there were visitors in the house and i was not home, but he in no way showed any other signs of aggression, fear, or discomfort with visitors being here (he loves playing with my brother). i told people to not leave things on the floor or they might get peed on, but this thing fell to the wayside. i'm going to look into feliway diffusers though the reviews online said they can start fires, which is kind of concerning!  
 hi elfi - sorry to hear your female persian is still a bit stressed by the new introduction. it sounds like you are doing everything right when it comes to introducing fester to the household. at this moment there really isn't much to do but wait for them to adjust. as for elf, just a thought but if you can't brush her a short-term alternative might be to have her shaved like fester. at least that way you don't have to worry about matting during her adjustment period.  
 hey! thanks for all the suggestions and supportive advice guys. elf is as good as back to normal, she is definitely less on edge and is getting more and more comfortable around fester every day. brushing is also going well again and there seems to be no more hand-sensitivity so that's great. i'm so lucky with these cats. they are chasing eachother and sleep/groom near eachother.  fester is a bit older and does swat elf when she tries to engage in play and he doesn't feel like it. so yeah, things have turned around a bit maybe! haha. thanks everyone.   
 hi! you could try cat attract litter but i have no idea if it's "compatible" with the automatic. i had to give up the auto box when my big guy arrived, back when, because not only would he not use it, it simply wasn't large enough for him. sometimes, --most times actually, it's not about what we want.  i'm scooping two, usually unless i'm late in the day then it's three boxes daily and dumping/washing every couple-three weeks. he is so completely worth it   
 hi! there's this article, hopefully it helps. let us know how things go   how to safely introduce a cat and a dog  
 hi! you're right, his rabbiting the little one is too much. as you're doing, separate them at that point ...can you find a kickaroo toy he can have until she grows up enough to smack him?   
 it's a cat toy, usually soft and floppy although some are stuffed so they're a little stiffer, that a cat can grab and wrestle with, and rabbit kick  https://www.amazon.com/gp/aw/d/b001...=1536631477&sr=8-1&keywords=kickeroo+cat+toy#  
 yes she is too tiny for his rough play. the good news is that he really wants to play with her rather than hurt her, so once she is older they will become best friends and playmates. another month will make a big difference in her size.  
   he is getting better at letting her alone when she is playing and grooming. she is now the instigator! i still intervene when he gets too rough. i’m too worried to wait it out yet, but he doesn’t seem to resent it. they are so fun to watch!  
 melody always wants to be where i am. she is allowed supervised visits to the garage--which is not kitty-proofed. i am planning to paint the garage this weekend and know that she will not be happy if she can hear me in the garage, but not see me. there is no screen door. i could put up the temporary screen--on a tension rod--that i got to protect a door screen upstairs. but, it may not be enough to keep her out of the garage. do i stress her for several hours with a closed door? put up the temporary screen, but expose her to the smell of the paint? can you tell i feel guilty already?  
 when you start feeling guilty for closing doors, kicking a cat off your lap because you have to go to the bathroom, close the window when it's too cold, etc ...  remember that you are allowed to say no, guilt-free! you are not hurting anyone, merely annoying kitty. the stress shouldn't be too bad for such a short period of time. you are not saying no to permanent happiness, merely no to instant gratification. melody will be fine, so i wouldn't stress too much over the closed door.   olive has only recently learned - and lost - the joys of the ripple rug. she has so much fun with it! our boy trin thought it made an excellent litter box, though, so i need to order her another one.   
 hi! you sound like terrific people, and have already figured out quite a bit for him   he sounds like he's getting fairly acclimated, can you try closing off the shower and putting a litterbox near to that? there are litters that have cat attract qualities, that could help ..  
 hey everyone!   i have 14 week old ragdoll, i’ve had her for 3 weeks now and she seems to keep getting more and more defiant and disobedient. i need all the suggestions ya’ll got!!!   background info... she is now home alone from 9am-3pm between myself or my boyfriend is home. but we slowly worked up to leaving her for that long.  she gets about 1.5 hours of play before everyone leaves for the day, then from 3-10pm we try to keep super busy with every single toy there is. fishing poles, lasers, interactive toys, balls... you name it - she has it. she is spoiled.  during the day she has a tunnel, balls, interactive toys, a window perch, scratching posts, lots of things to keep her mind occupied if she doesn’t want to nap in her own room (with food, water, litter).   the problem is, she is not learning right from wrong in the house. she is scratching things, chewing things, biting, kicking, climbing curtains, trying to eat plants, and the hardest one: eating dogs food. and yes we have a feeding schedule, everyone is fed at 6pm but she will not stay away from the dog food. my dog eats very slowly, over the course of 30 mins - 1 hour... he is an old man with high anxiety and there is no way he would be ok with locking him up and miss kitty is not ok being locked away either, she will literally have a sh*t fit if i do that while the dog gets fed. if i hold her and keep her away, she acts like i am killing her - cries, squirms, claw, bite etc. all these naughty habits she’s continued to do don’t seem to be changed by redirecting her attention, picking her up and moving her, clapping, hissing, coin jar, water spray.... nothing. she will literally look at me and go right back to doing what she was doing, even if i picked her up and put her in a different room, 10 seconds later she’s back at it.   so what gives? she gets so much interaction, attention and play. what can i do? is she going to be a terror forever? i already feel like i’m the “bad guy” in her eyes and she resents me, and we definitely haven’t bonded. but man, she is 100% full of it and starting to drive me nuts.   helppppp.   
 can you try breaking up the raw meal, maybe even to the point of when the dog is getting fed, give her one of the small raw meals?  
 hey there, unfortunately i am having a problem with my kitten's behavior!!! my kitten is 3 and a half months old, almost to the day. we also have a six month old female kitten who has already been spayed before we got her. she's only been here for a week! they are introduced and i don't have any issues regarding introduction. instead, i noticed yesterday that the male kitten attempted to hump her. i immediately grabbed him off and put him in his crate in hopes that alone time would calm him down. when i picked him off of her, even though he was humping her, his penis had not "come out" at all. he tried to hump her again this morning and i put him in his crate again, and again nothing had "come out". however, i still don't want him to do this behavior. he is a bit of a little terror, because even though he's sweet, when he does something bad (try to tear paper, jump into the wrong places etc), he is at this point totally unfazed by spray bottles, clapping, "no", and all we can do is put him in his crate until he calms down (15 mins) and let him back out. the vets are closed today; i can call them tomorrow, but they said he first needs a blood test and then we would have to wait two weeks until he can be neutered. i am going to try to get him neutered even sooner if i can... but what do i do before then to stop this behavior? is there any way i can make sure he doesn't do this to her while my boyfriend and i are out of the house or asleep? (we live in an apartment of a decent size, but really only two "rooms", the kitchen/living room and our bedroom) thanks for any help!!!  
 cats don't really respond to time out and punishments. after she hides where he can't get her then what? is she hiding all day or just for a bit and then she comes out again? are eventually fine for awhile? she needs to just smack him and tell him off. hopefully she will soon. lol. cats are such drama queens.  
 hi. feeby does that sometimes, but maybe now for different reasons than she used to (she's 14+). now, not so much to enact playing, but she will paw at my arm/leg to get attention. she also likes to place one paw on my arm or leg when she is laying beside me either on the recliner or in bed. but, it's got to be her decision, because if i try to do the same to her and she is not in the mood, she will promptly move her paw away.   sombra sounds like a sweetie!!  
 buster passed away several years ago, but he would give gentle face taps. he was also a very sympathetic kitty. if i was sad he would give me kisses and pat my face as if he was brushing the tears away. sam will walk up to me when i am standing and tap my leg. when i ask him what he wants, he just looks up at me. i don't know what that's about. i wish i could read his mind. you are very fortunate that you and sombra understand each other so well.   
 willow who is a pretty quiet cat, communicates a lot through arm pats. when she gets hungry rather than meowing she reaches up and gives me a very gentle pat on the elbow. she also does this sometimes when she doesn’t want anything but seems to just be letting me know she is in the room or asking for me to give her a quick head pet.  
 my olivie does that. she likes to lay on my chest when i'm watching tv in the evening, and she will stretch her paw up and gently pat my face. she will also sometimes do that when i'm sleeping, as a way to get me to wake up.  
 i get a gentle lip tap, as i'm starting to fall asleep and stop petting my cat salem. some cats are just better than others understanding how fragile their human's skin is. when salem wants to show affection he gives me "kisses" by touching my nose with his nose.  it sounds like she starting a game of tag with you, i would try playing tag with her.  
 amelia does it all the time, generally in an effort to get my attention. typically, she simply rests her paw on my hand (always there, rarely anywhere else, whether i'm laying in bed or sitting on the couch). she might pat it a few times if i don't respond. sometimes when we're cuddling, she'll put her paw on my arm... and hook a claw into my sleeve so i can't remove it! (it's probably an accident since she kneads sometimes too, but you never know)  it's really cute, even if she's using it to deprive me of sleep.  
 sombra sounds like a sweetheart. my smo pats me when i don't put down her treats fast enough, and pats/punches me when i've displeased her. i'm actually really flattered by it because she always knows never to extend her claws - she's just letting me know she's feeling bratty. she can be a hellbeast with anyone who isn't family so it's nice to see her go, "i'm annoyed with you but i would never hurt you."  
 so recently i had to move in with my mom, unfortunately for my cat, samwise, that means he has to be locked in my room at night. he gets to roam all day it's just at night. well this seems to really piss him off cause when it's time for me to go to bed and i shut the door he freaks out and attacks me. is there anything that i can do, it's getting rough.  
 hi and welcome! what a beautiful kitty!  i think the half hop is probably her being excited that you are petting her. my cat olive always hops a little when she is hungry or excited. her jumping back and fourth is her silly cat way of trying to get more pets. it’s possible she may prefer petting on her head, olive always lets me know where she wants to be scratched or pet by shoving that part in my hand.  
 you were definitely right. i've spent the last hour playing with her and it's pretty clear she's happy. but each time they said oh they might not come out for days or a week. so i wasn't sure. and rabbits they're far more temperamental than cats. lol one day they love you the next they could not care less about you.  ok so she got really friendly i think she is trying to play with my like another cat she'll open her paws up when i start to pet her flanks or stomach and kind of hold my hand but that's what they do so she's kind of fighting with me.   i'm so glad. everyone says it takes days, actually a friend of mine adopted one too and he's still hiding both morgana and well. i haven't given her a proper name so if anyone has suggestions i'm open but yea maybe 4 hours she came out and meowed so i meowed back and idk maybe i'm weird i talked to both of them i swear they knew i was acknowledging them.  
 so i left my 3 month old kitten alone overnight for the first time for a family event. i had her for about 5 weeks prior to that and she always slept in my bed with me. she has always used her litter box. i left her with fresh food and water and a clean box. when i got back to my place the next morning, i found poo in the middle of the floor in a room nowhere near the litter box. it's been a week and she hasn't done it again. i'm wondering if it was just separation anxiety for that one night? all my research online about why cats poo outside the litter box say that it could be because they don't like the box, they don't like the litter, or they feel threatened and are marking their territory. but this just happened the one time. either way, i'm never leaving her alone for that long again. anyone have experience with this?  
 it could be separation anxiety, but at 3 months just might have been an accident. kittens and puppies can be just like little kids. they get absorbed in whatever they're doing, leave potty breaks till the last few seconds, and sometimes don't make it in time.  
 4 years ago i rescued a kitten. the introduction to my cat i already had at home did not go well. i did everything i could to ensure a smooth introduction but my cat trixie just wouldn’t put up with the new arrival. after several months my mom, a senior, agreed to help and she took the kitten in. he was happy, playful, and all seemed well for a while. he was fixed and unfortunately declawed. his behaviour at first was good but within a few months at her home he would no longer let anyone including me pet or pick him up. he would hiss and bite if anyone got too close. he has bonded somewhat with my mom in that he sleeps on her bed and by her feet but any sudden movement or if you accidentally touch him he will bite. this behaviour has increased over the last year. the cat is now 4 years old, he is beautiful and healthy but my mom just isn’t sure she can manage this cat too much longer. she lives in a small condo and is 85 years old. i feel super guilty because she did me a favour by taking the kitten but know i’m thinking i need to rehome him and it won’t be easy. this cat was so friendly and happy as a kitten, i have not idea why he has changed so much. looking for some advice. thanks.  
 hi!  did this kitty decide he is your mom's protecter? or did she let him bite during play as he was growing?  has he been to a vet recently?  would you be willing to try things in these articles, bring him back into your house away from your mom, and work with him?  why do cats attack?  14 cat experts reveal: how to get a cat to like me  you, your cat and stress  how to successfully introduce cats: the ultimate guide  cat aggression toward people  
 hi. as said above, you need to ensure the urine smell is completely removed from the bed. if i understand correctly, she is peeing on a place where the comforter is not? if so, you could also ensure the comforter is always covering up the bed, especially where she is peeing. and, if it is possible, you might want to put a litterbox as close by as is possible - on the assumption there is not one already nearby.  
 thanks for your reply   i am using an h-type harness and putting it on her while she's munching on a treat. she's kind of a weird cat in that she doesn't mind collars or harnesses, but doesn't like being picked up. i heard a lot of cats don't like harnesses. the one i use is easily adjustable and fits her snuggly. i would make sure that your cat's harness isn't loose, which might make it a little more enjoyable for her.  trying to walk my cat while she's sleepy is a good idea! i've tried feeding her some catnip but i don't think it affects her at all..  i'm new to this forum so it's good to hear that there are plenty of cat walkers here who might have some good advice   
 thanks for sharing about your harness! juniper is tiny (just under 7 pounds) but has a very, very long torso, which makes the h-shape a bit challenging.  here are some fun pics of cats walking. i know that buddy the adventure cat's owner has gone into some detail about training him to like walking, the equipment they use, etc. and i learned a lot from reading those threads, as others have also chimed in.  walkies welcome, photos and more, with or without leashes  
 what a sweet little face! thanks for sharing.   
 awww... she's adorable.   
 thanks, i'm having a great time training her   
 about 10 yrs ago we were in a similar situation. 4 seniors and when only one was still with us. rusty was 14 and always wanted to "mother" the other cats he caring wasn't welcomed. he was still very energetic so we did get him a kitten that he loved and accepted in under a week.  when your heart is ready i'm sure he would appreciate another feline friend.    
 hi! i guess i'm wondering if it's super necessary for him to like other people? my boy is scared of/ doesn't like/tolerates people-depending..., but always has been this way always will be.  the only thing would be to have other people leave him alone. don't approach him, don't look at him, definitely don't pet or try to pick him up. if he's given enough emotional space, he may decide that he wants to check someone out, but again, that person needs to respect the cat's choice, and not react except for very gently and slowly. be fair to your baby , and let him decide if he wants to interact.  
 that's a good idea <3  i'll have to try the classical music idea x see if he comes out of his shell a little  he's such a friendly soul, who loves a fuss and apart from the fact we're completely different species i'm fully convinced he thinks i'm his mother xd  
 he has his cat tree that he likes to hide in if my family come over, if it's someone he doesn't recognize he hides under the bed, so i think he may be getting better very very slowly, but i'll have to give him time. i make sure i never force him out as he isn't a fan of being picked up too much either,  i also sometimes have to coax him out of his hiding spot once everyone has left, i just wish he wasn't so scare, i guess i also worry because when strangers come round if they see you have a very timid cat, i always worry they're thinking we're horrible to him, but that really is as far away from the truth as it can be <3   
 you do have to let them go at their own pace but, sometimes you have to gently push their boundaries too. manny doesn't like to be picked either but, everyday i pick him up ,give him a quick hug and a kiss and set him right back down. he seems to mind it less and less. on occasion he'll lean into me. i'm pretty sure he was abused as a kitten. i never thought i would see manny lay on my lap but, he started doing just that a couple weeks ago. he looks like a happy cat! i wouldn't give up but, at the same time, i wouldn't stress to much about it.   
 she might think you are playing your stroke is part of a game. use an oven mitt and see if she bites that. fingers can seem like fast moving threats or dangling toys to be batted away. kitty has enough scratching material_? they can buff their nails and sand down their claws.  rub under the chin and behind the ears. maybe there was an incident in the past where someone she trusted got her in the head & grabbed her by the neck skin and incurred pain.  also remember with ferals other people play with the cat and screw up the behavior. the cat may be responding to cues you don't even know exist. teasing from other people is reflected how the cat acts when she interacts with you.  also think about how you pet the cat. i know two men who show attention to a cat of mine in a way annoying to me and the cat. they would be too rough and 'bink',or tap the cat on the head and say "boop".  maybe just talk to the cat and then when she brushes, let her set the tone. older cats have bad wiring from past abuse and sometimes just food and shelter is as far  as their damage will allow us to go.  
 my 8 month old kittend buried a spring in the litter box. is this abnormal behaviour or normal? i was surprised when i was scooping and found it!  
 cats have an instinct to bury 'prizes' to hide the smell and discourage predators/other cats from finding it. the litter was most likely the only place he had to bury it. lions/tigers drag their prey up into trees. if he ever finds your plants to do this just put in large rocks around the soil on top, then they can't dig and it doesn't look bad.  
 we've had toby, our intact male cat, since he was born 1.5 years ago. we rescued he, his mom, and his siblings a day after she had given birth to them. everyone else found a home once they were old enough, but we kept toby. he's always been a little feisty, though, i would say he's usually just like any other cat. he's got his favorite hiding places, toys he loves, and occasionally bats at feet as we walk by. we've never had any true problems with aggression... until now.  as of about a week ago, toby has taken to running into our room at full speed, coming to a stop by my side of the bed, and then jumping up and viciously attacking me in my sleep. not just my feet under the covers or arms hanging off of the bed, either. he comes for my face and does not stop until my fiance wakes up and yells at him. last night, he left me in tears.   he only does this at night when we're sleeping. during the day, he's just as affectionate and sweet as he can be. when these episodes occur, he never hisses or growls. he just comes for me with his ears pinned and claws out and slashing. it's like he knows it's mean and doesn't want to wake my fiance while trying to get at me, but seriously just has it out for me.  this is the real kicker: my fiance wakes up and yells at him, and then toby simply walks over to him and lays on his chest to fall asleep, perfectly content like nothing happened.  my behavior and disposition toward toby has not changed since we brought him into this house at a day old. i treat him the same as i did then. we go through the same routines every day and he's sweet as sweet can be toward me during the day. he actually used to sleep on my pillow at night curled up right by my head without a problem.   i don't know what has changed or what to do. i do not have the money for a behaviorist but i have to get to the bottom of this because feeling so afraid in my own home is unacceptable. at this point i'm almost ready to find toby a new home because i feel that i am in extreme danger here. it's only a matter of time before he really does get a hold of me and rip my face to shreds.  can anyone help? what is going on here??  
 meant to say "vet." sorry   
 thank you. we're hunkered down and safe, thankfully. also, any tips for dealing with the behavior in the meantime? i hate to say it, but i'm afraid to sleep!   
 can you close your bedroom door? i have a 4.5 month female kitten and from day 1 i’ve turned off the lights in the living area (her space) and gone into my bedroom and shut the door. i know your cat is a bit older so he might cry at first, but don’t respond at all and he will get used to sleeping away from you.   
 yes, we can close the door. the only problem is that he yowels and scratches at it until it's opened again, which keeps us awake all night. might just have to deal with it for a while though   
 i agree with everyone on the neutering. because it's at night and sudden i wonder if it is also redirected aggression from something he saw through a window.   is your side of the bed closest to the door? try changing sides if you can't keep the door closed.  
 hi. yeah, to be sure, he will do it again now that he knows he can!   i don't suppose by any chance you have a screened in patio? that would be one option as opposed to letting him outside loose all day. a few cat perches out there would be even better. i have even heard of people building outdoor enclosures for their cats, so they can be confined to the yard.   the other thing would be to train him to recognize some sort of bell or some appealing noise maker at your front door that you could ring when you want him to come home. no guarantee, of course.  i don't think having him indoors more would make him venture off further when he is allowed outside. he will likely venture farther and farther regardless, just out of curiosity.  
 if it is possible to try to invest in buying a kittywalk system space might be limited but you know for a fact that he is safe and won't roam around the neighborhood.   
 i'm looking to get a kitten and am wondering if i should get a male or a female. we're concerned that our 3 year old might not be accepting of a new friend and may spray as a result. i hear females spray less but we really would like another boy. currently our 3 year old has no spraying problems and we hope that won't change once a new arrival comes in.  i know there are varying opinions but if anyone can give some insight on what might work better a male or female kitten it would be appreciated. either way we're willing to take all the needed steps to make it work, thanks.  
 thanks for the insight!  
 hello and welcome to tcs. here's another article that might have some tips for you: your second cat: how to choose the best friend for kitty  
 if she's eating, going to the litter box, and otherwise acting fine, i wouldn't worry too much about it! cats can sleep upwards of 15 hours a day when they're all grown up. some have even gone around 20 hours!  my cats adore their cat tree too. both of them love sleeping in the cubbies. i think it gives them a feeling of security. sometimes they will stay there for hours and hours on end.   
 i've had a lot of cats in my life and while i don't consider myself a cat expert i think i know my way fairly well around cats. but i have never experienced what i am experiencing with my cat moe before. to give you a little background information i currently live in a household of two (sometimes three) humans and five cats. (gizmo - 13(m), shatzi - 9(f), moe - 6(m), parker & sophie - 4(f)) our cat herd has always gotten along well enough. sure, we've had a few scuffles and a bumpy introduction of two surprise kittens a few years ago but for the last three/four years our five cats have lived in relative harmony.  my father recently got a new job about four hours away from my mother and i. while we look for a new house and my mom looks for a job in the same area we currently live in two places. my father in an apartment and me and my mom in our house. now, moe has always been my father's cat and we all agreed that he should take moe with him to help fill in the empty spaces. (we did this once before with no negative consequences. he reintroduced easily.) everything was fine, he settled into the new place with ease.   recently my father had go on a business trip out of town and he brought moe home since he would be away for so long. moe...lost it. he's always been a very quiet cat but he spent hours yowling until he was hoarse and hissing and batting at anyone that even looked at him. not even my father is allowed to touch him when he's in this state and when he does, finally, calm down enough to breathe he still won't let me or my mother anywhere near him. we've been keeping him separated from the other cats, doing the feeding time trick but he won't eat until the other cats are long gone.   unfortunately he made a break for the garage last night and was successful. we spent ages trying to coax him out from under the car. in the end he only went and hid off the the less accessible side. (the only simple way in is to open the garage door to the world.) while he's contained it is very hot out there (we left him a bowl of water) and any tips on how to get him back inside with as few bites and scratches as necessary would be greatly appreciated. same for any ideas on how to get him to mellow out and re-socialize. (we do not plan on separating him from the pack again after this.)  (if you need to know more about moe and the cat dynamics of our house please feel free to ask. we are very worried about moe right now and would love any advice those more knowledgeable can tell us.)  
 he's never shown much interest in tuna over the years. we tried coaxing him out with his fave treats to no avail. just hissing sadly. i definitely think a trip to the vet is in order though. just have to...get him out of the garage and into a cat carrier.   
 an update:  after two hours of sitting in the garage by himself my father finally managed to coax moe into his arms. he is currently in the house and seems to be all right. thank you all so much for your help on getting him back into the house! <3  
 good morning, september 2017 we adopted 2 cats from local rescue centre. both were very timid at first as you'd expect but they now run the house  a few months after moving in one of the cats started over grooming and had no fur around base of her tail. the vets diagnosed stress and she has since had visits for steroid injections, powder to sprinkle on her food which has a calming effect and she now has royal canin calm which she has treats instead of a replacement to her wet food. the injections calm things down but then it flares up again. instead of stress could it be something else, food for example. the only thing i think it could possibly is the dreamies treats we give them. our old cat used to have these but them became allergic to them by being sick after having them so quickly stopped giving them to her. just wondering if anyone else has experience of food allergies or any general advice on what this could be. i don't want her to keep having the injections if we can avoid it due to serious long term side effects it could give her. thank you for reading this and look forward to reading your advice and thoughts on this. thank you  
 thank you for your reply. they don't have a litter tray and so go outdoors, i would say they are 50/50 indoors/outdoors. the reason i'm not sure it's necessarily stress related is the fact she had beautiful fur while she lived in the rescue centre and this problem didn't start as soon as we adopted her, both situations i believe would have been stressful for her, it started some months after when she was beginning to settle in. i am going to take her back to vets and suggest we look at other ideas and will definitely suggest flea allergies, thank you again   
 i am not sure. i have been treating his eyes for a week, the ears for less than that. he gets rechecked thursday, i guess i will know then. i think she said 10 days or 2 weeks.  
 how old is he?  
 how old are your cats? if they are relatively young, they may get over the early morning aggravation as they age. if they are pretty young, they may also learn routines over time. i know my cats did; they actually came to learn weekdays vs. weekends and would act accordingly, knowing no one in our house gets up as early on weekends as they do weekdays.  
  my cats sleep with me most of the time, but not all the time. whether they do or not, they have gotten used to my routine. i have to take a pill, then wait 30 minutes to get up, so i have a two-alarm clock. they come in the room or wake up when the first one goes off, then start playing and bouncing on the bed when the second one goes off. there's no sleeping for anyone after that.   
 my cats don't sleep with me, they sleep with one of my sons most of the time. there are nights that he works and they seem to know the schedule. no one wakes me but i am up early most of the time anyway. i have always fed them after my shower so they associate that with feeding time rather than my waking time.  
 lol they think it is their bed! that said if they wake you up kick them out and ignore them until your normal wake up time. expect them to be obnoxiously meowing and rattling your door. do not crack. if you crack, they will never learn to let you sleep. i suggest running a fan to block out the noise and if you can locking them into a cat room, so you have two doors between you. i prefer to train one cat at a time.  
 they both do at certain times. stevie usually does around this time while i'm lounging in bed on my laptop (although naturally right now she isn't with me!), and gizmo will join me after their 3am feeding. i don't currently work so it certainly helps to allow me to stick to their routine. they both usually wake me up by wrestling right next to me in the morning but it works out since it tends to be around the time i wake up anyway.  
 my bear sleeps in my bedroom every night most of the time on the two pillows i leave on the bed for him right next to me. he does wake me up at different times during the night most of all just climbs up on my chest or my side. when i wake up he is usually lightly pawing my face or putting his nose to my nose or his cheek to my cheek i just pet him let him purr he usually rolls over on his back and wants a tummy and chest rub. i don't get upset at him waking me i made a commitment to give him a happy home and lots of love. he is 6 months now i got him two months ago from a animal shelter he is part maine coon and was placed in the shelter from one month old. i feel so bad for him when i think about that being separated from his mother at one month old. a very interesting thing happened the other day. i had been sick and had a lot of pain in my right foot. that night before he came and slept up my the pillows he laid down over the top of my right foot. he stayed there for awhile and when i started to go to sleep he came up by the pillow. i woke up in the middle of the night and he was still awake as if he was watching over me and he did not do his normal wake me up routine. when the alarm went off he was still laying there wide awake. was that just a coincident or was he in his own way trying to help me heal.  
 am i the only one with a cat that hisses and growls at me at night?  
 busy goes through phases. you know how they say cats like routine? well, other than food, i don't think mine does. for a few weeks, she has to fall asleep on the bed near my feet, another few weeks its in the underbed drawers, then it's the couch...and so on. it's the same with toys and hangout spots. but she hates a closed door. so, we don't generally lock her out of the bedroom, especially since she learned how to open the door. but when she's in a phase where she walks all over us at night, my boyfriend always threatens that it's time to lock her out.  
 no hissing or growling, but there is a lot of biting of my toes, and not exactly softly either. even if they're under the blanket.    
 only stretch routinely sleeps next to me, but burdock will make his presence known from time to time. we tried closing the door at night, and the paintwork suffered for it.  
 they are something else at times. link got a random energy burst the other night, he licked rocket to try to wake her up, she didnt respond, so he took a step back and jumped on her stomach to wake her up. i don't think it went how he expected. she jumped up yowling and smacked him. he left looking very confused.   
 @kieka, like this?    
 oh man, what a dick. i love his nonchalant "doo do dooo, just drinking some water, not sure why you are upset"  
 exactly like that!    
 i get the feeling this might be mother and son. or husband and wife.    
 sounds like it could be a uti. is she eating a lot of dry food? can you increase her canned food?  
 she seems to snap out of the "fear mode" pretty quickly. but if i approach her or look at her the wrong way during this time, she will urinate almost instantly.  
 i'm not sure whether it's a good decision or not. every time i think about getting a new pet i have this problem of self doubt. so, here is some information about myself and my home. let me know if you think, based on this honest information, that adding a new cat is a bad idea or if i should go ahead. i fell in love with this cat that needs a home.  i live in a three bedroom home with an upstairs and basement. during the summer, the cats have access to a large screened-in porch with toys and cat trees. during the winter, we move all that stuff into the "mud-room" and that becomes their play room. i make decent money so vet visits, toys, good quality food, etc are not an issue. they are all on a grain-free food (natural balance).  i have 5 cats. all rescues. all of them are spayed/neutered (not declawed) and up to date on vaccines. they all get along relatively well although a couple of them just tolerate each other. whenever there's a health issue, the first thing they do is go to the vet. my last addition, mochi, is dealing with chronic diarrhea for which we have had multiple vet visits. she's having a pcr panel done tomorrow and the vet thinks it might actually be ibd. would adding a new cat make her worse if we do a very slow introduction? i'm home a lot despite my hectic career. i do most of my grading, research, etc from home and only go to work for office hours, meetings, and classes. our house is kept spotless and the litter boxes are scooped twice a day.  pros:  new kitty who needs a home. more floof to cuddle. this cat is actually the sibling of another cat we adopted (who we currently have).  cons:  i wonder if we would need to add an extra litter box. we currently have two in the basement, two in the mud room, and one upstairs.  i worry that mochi would be stressed out by the new addition.  six cats just sounds like a lot, right? is it hoarding after a certain number of cats?  
 since i only have 1 cat, i'm totally the wrong person to be trying to help you decide to adopt another cat. unless, of course, you really don't want to.    i'm happy with just my ruby, and i'm 99% sure she happy being her mama's only cat.   one thing to totally keep in mind, is that sometimes cat introductions take a long time. or don't ever work out. though i think i've read that the more cats in the household, the easier it is to add another to the mix. so that might be in your favour.  i believe that would be @1catovertheline   about litter boxes, the "rule" is one per cat, plus one, so with 6 cats, 7 would be the recommendation. but might not actually be necessary, especially if your cats don't mind sharing litter boxes.  good luck making the decision. let us know what you decide.   
 i haven't tried raw! mostly because i'm scared i'll mess up and she won't get the nutrients she needs or she won't get the calories she needs to start putting on weight. i'll have to get back to you on the sqft of my house as i'm not sure what it is exactly.   
 @underneaththestars - i'm sorry to be the spoiler, but you need another cat, and what's far more important, is point number one on your "pros" list: "new kitty who needs a home."  you're clearly responsible, and hoarding - no matter the number - generally is the province of an irresponsible owner.  caveat: no one has ever pointed to me and said, "look - there's the brightest knife in the old light socket."   i have eleven cats currently in an eight bedroom, 5200 square foot home. i've had twice that number and more when socialising tnrs because i don't believe in release when - with a little time and effort - former ferals can fit into a forever home, where they'll be waited on hand and foot by people exactly like you.  suggestion: talk with some (responsible) cat owners with twenty or more cats - tcs members like @norachan @jcatbird and @jamescalifornia and get their views regarding multiple-cat households.  there's a certain almost magical tipping point with any clowder when it grows large enough that allows a new cat to become a part of the family nearly seamlessly. i've found that with seven or more kitties, that newcomers are simply expected, and welcomed with great ease. cats are, by and large, more logical than humans - and they have a singular quality which allows them to coexist with one another, and with their human family as well - they have the ability to love without reservation.  six cats? easy peasy. eleven cats? a little more work, but worth every moment of it. twenty-two cats? ask @norachan - but the answer will be that she wouldn't part with a single one - and hers, like mine, and almost exclusively former ferals. tnring, socialising and adopting out a hundred cats in one sweeping motion? ask @jcatbird and she'll tell you that it was worth every minute.   new kitty who needs a home? not. any more. .   
 if you're not comfortable making that leap into home made raw, you don't need to. maybe later   
 socks is a 6 year old spayed female cat.  she is used to having outdoor access-we found her as a stray at 7 months and she was an outdoor cat i fed and played with for another six months (i lived with my mum, and she didn't want a cat). since then she has been an indoor/outdoor cat, who prefers the outdoors.  i have three other cats. they are three years old and indoor only. i got them as kittens, did originally start letting them out once they were almost full grown, spayed, vaccinated and chipped, but they never really took to it and rarely were out more than 10 minutes, and eventually just stopped going out and ended up indoors.  they are happy indoor cats who don't complain, and they have plenty of toys and places to sleep...all the things a cat could want.  socks is used to being outside though, but lately this is becoming a problem-she likes being outside too much, but if i let her out in the afternoon, she doesn't come back until after dark and hasn't been coming when called like she used to, but i don't like her being out after dark and when i am calling her for a long time i worry about disturbing the neighbours. even if she knows that when i call her in, i feed her, she doesn't care...and then i have the indoor cats whining at me for food until she decides to return.  for the past few weeks, i have been letting her out once after breakfast, she will go do her thing for a few hours and when she comes in, she stays in, although this hasn't stopped her standing on the windowsill and meowing to be let out in the afternoon. i have been at home more for the last few weeks, but now my work hours have changed and i have not been at home to let her out in the morning (i have never allowed her out when i am not in), so this is only possible at weekends. maybe she needs to go full cold turkey and be an indoor cat.  she is already annoyed by not having full outdoor access and very persistently meows at the window, and her other annoying habit of flinging herself at doors and flipping the handle up and down, but then running off and standing by the window or front door when the door is opened to see if she wants to come in.  how do i get socks to get used to being indoors?  
 i once trained an outdoor cat to be satisfied indoors via trickery. i only would let her out in terrible weather ( rain, 100+ degrees, snow, etc.)  after a while she accepted the reality that outside was just a horrible place.  she was later let out in good weather (not by me), and it was all undone so do be aware of that.  
 here's a tcs article on the five golden rules to bringing an outdoor cat inside that might have some tips for you.  also, how to make your home bigger (at least for your cats)  
 if your neighborhood is safe for an indoor/outdoor, why is it bad the cat is out when it is dark? cats see very well in the dark, and neither foxes nor coyotes are wholly nocturnal.  
 buddy the brave is no coward. he's not very smart either. he's brave and stupid. not a good combo for a long life. so, he's now an inside cat and for the most part, seems content. we have another one that's an outside cat any time she wants. but, she won't go more than 100ft from the house. and, only that far if she can see us.  but, she's not brave at all, and she's very smart when it comes to her own well being.   
 please! the only good thing that can happen to an outdoor cat is to be rescued to be an indoor only cat.   first, there are dogs. many of them consider cats as prey. i have retrieved two cats from the area that were attacked by dogs. one was dead. the other one had a huge gaping wound just past his rib cage. i rescued him, and after a $500.00+ vet bill, he is a very affectionate indoor only cat.   then there are cars and malicious neighbors.  plus there are raccoons, coyotes (which are nocturnal in my suburban area), and other cats that may attack your cat. plus there are parasites and diseases that a cat can catch. if your cat has fleas, she probably has tape worms. see bruce the brave for examples.  please keep your cats indoors all the time.  
 i will preface what i am about to say with this: i am not an advocate of indoor/outdoor cats. most people don't let their dogs be 'indoor/outdoor' dogs, so why is it so good for cats? it isn't...  i have a neighbor who took in a 3-4 year old female/spayed cat who was used to running the neighborhood and no one knows who really owned her. but, she kind of 'adopted' my neighbor and started coming to their house every night at dark. however, at 6 years old, she started getting bullied by some other, larger cats that were allowed to roam outside - probably all day and night, i don't know. the neighbor promptly restricted her to the house. there were many times after that when she got out and had to be chased/cajoled/tricked/bribed back inside. it took a long time, but she finally gave up/lost interest/decided indoors was ok.  go cold turkey. you will never wean her off outdoors if she is allowed outdoors at all. a lot of play time, and a lot of attention, is crucial too. treats might not be a bad idea for a while, such as when you call her away from the door to distract her. i hope all of the info you've been given on this site helps. let us know how you/she are progressing, if you choose to make her a full-time indoor kitty.  
 i have bought a harness and leash for socks, and am slowly accustoming her to using it. that way she is safe, but also gets to go outside and sniff things in the garden. she is currently sat on my lap contentedly, with the harness over her but not fastened. we are working up to getting it on and fastened, and then actually walking in it.  she seems to have forgotten about meowing at the window to go out, she's not been doing that as much, and hopefully wont again when she connects "put the harness on and then walk out the front door" with outside, instead of "meow at the window"  
 hello! i adopted a cat yesterday. i'm not sure of his age. the shelter's website had his age as 1-2 years old but when i was there, they told me 3-4. he hasn't been neutered, which will be happening on wednesday (made the appointment this morning). when i brought him home, i put him in a separate room right away as i have a 14 year old female. he proceeded to spray in a few places around the room. i can't say i'm surprised as it all smells foreign to him. but will neutering help with that? i'm worried about when i let him out into the rest of the house and when he has to interact with cami. i'm afraid he'll be spraying all over.  does anyone know anything about this sort of issue or any tips on what i can do to help? thank you!  
 the neutering should help. i would suggest that you keep him in his own room until he has healed from the neutering, then start the slow process of introduction to your other cat and to the rest of the house. it can take a while even after neutering for the hormones to leave the body, so taking it slow would be best just to be on the safe side and so he doesn't pee all over the house. not only that but right now he smells a certain way, when he gets home from the vet, he'll smell different, then when he heals, and no longer on meds (if any) he may smell different again. so your resident cat will have to get used to "multiple new cats" in a short period which may stress her out too.  in the mean time get yourself an enzyme cleaner for his pee spots and a box of pee pads. you can tape them to the wall to catch the spray pee, with one on the floor under it for the rest, where he seems to like to spray. it will make clean up much easier.  i know i'm repeating some things that @furballsmom said, but i already typed it when she beat me to it!  
 try the equalizer (can be purchased on amazon.com), especially for use on rugs/carpets/fabrics. it does not require saturating the material. it is the only thing i have ever tried that has actually removed the smell of urine.   as for hard surfaces, i've never had to use this product on them but it might work there as well. just clean up the area to remove any puddled pee, spray the equalizer on a towel and rub over the area. you could probably even leave it sitting on top of the area for a while.  
 hi! are you able to watch both inside and especially outside to see what is happening that could be a trigger for this? my boy doesn't cover his business when there are ferals/strays visiting his yard.  
  hello and welcome to tcs. sorry it's a litter box issue that brought you here.   when you say every 2 weeks like clockwork, do you mean the exact same day every 2 weeks, or just it happens every 2 weeks or so?  
 can you try some cat attract litter? --i still think there's something happening that he can see or hear, or smell? that is acting as a trigger.... i totally love that face by the way   
 have you tried taking the floor mat away? or putting down a different one?   
 most cat play is related to practicing fighting or hunting skills. so yes, she is playfully hunting you. a lot of cats are a bit careless with their claws, especially in this type of play. while many here have played what a human might term tag with their cats, it absolutely can encourage inappropriate behaviors in certain cats. imho, you don't want your cat viewing you as a target for play-hunting - not only because you might get a bit clawed, but also because it will occur when your not expecting it and you'll step on your cat or drop something. we've had people post of cats doing this to their face when sleeping -- its just not a good idea for you especially given that your cat is being a bit rough, and is a bit rough outside of the game as well.  bottom line - unfortunately, you should probably cease this game, and discourage any stalking/playful hunting of you.  as far as other behaviors you mentioned, some people say that those are related to insecurities that you can address. maybe? hard to speculate without more details of your relationship with the cat. i would likely just try and extinguish the attacking you when hungry by (1) feeding on a schedule; and (2) stomping your feet when you have the space to safely do so to back the cat off, then ignoring the cat - to not reinforce the behavior by responding positively to it. as far as the lashing out when grooming, i'd just avoid the cat when its grooming. i would have different advice if the cat didn't generally like/trust you -- am i wrong in assuming you have a generally good relationship?  
 that’s great to hear! god, he sounds adorable, i’m hoping to get my girl to this level of trust and playfulness. sounds like there’s no bad behavior associated with it?   
 i don't have time to read through this whole thread but if no one else suggested it yet, trim her claws!   
 oh whoops, i didn't fully clarify there. she'll get bored with the feather after a few minutes, but she'll still want to play her game with me--when she actually plays, she ends up tired out and unwilling to play with anything! she'll sit down and start cleaning herself for a nap.  but yes, this seems to be the best advice--transfer her attention and her understanding of playtime to the feather or other toys, at least as long as i'm worried about it possibly leading to bad, non-play behavior. this is what i'll go with, thank you!   
 sweet gum likes it when her feather pecks at the floor - pigeon style. she's seen pigeons. most of all she likes it when we play with her cord - it's a little lighter than clothesline weight and about four feet long. the trick is to make it move like a snake, slowly undulating near her. pounce and she's got it!  
 hi,  i adopted an adult cat, sophie, from the humane society this past sunday. five days later, she's still under my bed most of the day. my other cat, elmo, hissed at her defensively whenever he saw her for the first couple days, but he's stopped that now. she'll come out a few times a day and explore the living room, but then she runs back under the bed. several times a day i'll go into the bedroom, and i'll make kissy noises and pat the floor until she comes out. then i'll pet her for a while and try to get her to follow me out of the bedroom, but she refuses. there's food and water under the bed, and a litter box next to the bed, so i'm not worried about her starving or anything. i know that it would be counter-productive to drag her out of the bedroom and close off all the hiding places, but i'm wondering if there's anything else i can do to help her adjust.  
 cats usually do best if they’re introduced to one room at a time. it might take a little time for sophie and elmo to become friends, but going through the introduction process slowly should help them to warm up to each other: how to successfully introduce cats: the ultimate guide  
 if your existing cat is already tolerating her, that is a real victory. some cats going to a new home do hide for a week or so. you can try and speed it up by luring out with treats and a lure/ribbon toy but its not necessary per se. its great that she will already come out when you indicate you want to pet her. your 100% right not to grab or pick up until she is totally comfortable.  bottom line, not going badly at all.  
 i brought in a cat from outside. she stayed under the couch for 3 months! then my bedroom. now she leaves my bedroom on her own. it took her a year! my cat peaches has become friends with her. maggie tolerates her. don't worry-some cats it can take a week or more.  
 lol i bought an arby's turkey bacon ranch wrap, and sophie came running 5 seconds after i got home. gave both cats a piece of turkey, and she's still in the living room an hour later!! thanks everyone for making me feel better!  
 love it! we will have to add an arby’s wrap to our recommendations on how to help a new cat adjust.  
 as in the comment above i recommend watching some videos by the kitten lady on youtube she's an awesome cat advocate and rescues kittens on the daily. she has a lot of good advice for bottle babies.  kitten lady  also, there's really no point in trying to introduce the two cats and it is even potentionally dangerous; the kitten probably hasn't been vaccined yet and you can't let a cat that isn't vaccined with one that is - even more so when their immune system is as weak as that of a baby of a few weeks old.  
 interesting. cats are certainly fascinating creatures.     
 i have a 4-year-old female cat and a 9-month-old male cat. both of them are best friends and could never be separated for more than a couple of minutes   yesterday i took the 9-month-old male cat and got him sprayed.  after coming back home both my cats are hissing growing and fighting with each other!   i need some help! what do i do? i don't want to give up on them.  i seriously need help and don't understand what to do!  
 both cats were adopted by me, i found them on the streets when they were very young, orange has been with me for over 4 years now. toothless joined the family about 8-9 months back, he came to use when he was about 2-3 weeks old, his mom was run over by a car.  
 give them a few days and they will be back to normal. it is upsetting to see but it will pass once the strange smells have gone.  
 even once the 'vet smell' wears off, toothless will likely smell a little differently than what he did before the neutering (hormonal), so that might possibly lengthen the adjustment time.   i have only rarely heard of a situation where two cats got along before one of them was neutered/spayed and never made up afterward - even then, i heard they ended up 'tolerating' each other. in most cases - and i am sure yours is one of them - they end up being the buddies they were before.  
 i think that's very common with bottle fed cats. here's an article from the humane society on teach your kitten how to play nice that might be helpful.  plus a couple tcs articles: how to stop playtime aggression in cats cat aggression toward people why do cats attack?  one thing i'd seen suggested, is instead of saying "ouch", try hissing at him when he bites. or if you say "ouch" say it in a high pitched tone, more like a cat's meow. both responses are more like how another cat would respond, so might work.  also, please keep an eye on any bites or scratches that draw blood, as they can quickly become infected.  cat bites - what every cat owner needs to know ouch! more than you ever wanted to know about cat bites  
 the best time to hold and cuddle a hyperactive half grown kitten is when they are sleepy or sleeping. he will love it and settle in for a snooze and you will get bite free cuddle time in. i always used this time to trim claws and get them used to having their paws touched and claws extended so there isn’t a battle when they are adults.  
 hi there ! my cat has a peeing issue. the vet says that she has stress and so she holds her urine and that’s why she pees on mats and bathmats. she will also do it just outside her litter box. he suggested i change letters he suggested i use the feliway. last year we were doing injections every month for inflammation of her bladder because she gets a thickened water from holding it. that didn’t work for very long. we then tried antidepressants and that just made her really tired and didn’t really help. i just bought the enzyme spray and more deterrent spray cleaned the entire area where the mats are in the back landing to stop her from peeing. we are going to try doing the injections once a week for a month and then monthly again. i’ve switched her litter again this time to the pallet kind. i think she likes the rubber on mats i am not sure. we do have two cats has anyone run into this and found the pellets worked better because of the plastic like material on them  
 hi! for the stress, can you try the app relax my cat?  
 hi,  i have two cats - migo -siamese cat, 9 years old, neutered, and lami - russian blue, female, not spayed, 1 year old.  these two cats were not really great friends - they kind of ignored each other, but it was not so bad.  the problem began after we sent lami to mate.  after she came back, migo seemed to have non-recognition aggression, but he doesn't attack her or anything, just hisses, and runs away.  we were not aware of the non-recognition aggression, so we made a mistake to set lami roam around the house.  migo seems to be very stressed, and sometimes even refuses to eat treats. (he doesn't refuse all the food, he eats sometimes, but significantly shows less interest in food, and absolutely shows less affection towards myself or to my wife)  we tried to play with them in the same place, but migo seem to be not that interested in toys. (he never really was, after aging, he began to not take interested in playing so much - he wouldn't chase, but just sit and grab the toys with his paw)  meanwhile, lami - the female russian blue, seems to be alright with the house, and begins to explore, scratch, and eat food alright.   we also tried to separate them, but lami seem to be still in heat after mating, and she won't stop yowling until we let her roam..and it's literally driving us crazy.  i have thought of re-introduction, but another problem is that i live in an apartment, and we don't have that much space.  should we just let them separated even though there are mixture of scents in their own rooms and start re-introduction process all over again?  or would it be better to send one of the cats away for a while - and start re-introduction process again?   i am really lost here, i would really appreciate your advise.  
 hi! welcome!! i don't know what to suggest about lami's yowling, but maybe the music i'm suggesting for migo will help her.  try some low volume music - there's an app called relax my cat or classical harp music. how to fix an unsuccessful cat introduction  how to successfully introduce cats: the ultimate guide  playing with your cat: 10 things you need to know  you, your cat and stress   
 i couldn’t seem to find the sound clip. but at eight weeks you should be transitioning them to water. but some wet food in their diet will also make sure they are getting enough liquids and nutrition.   and yes, they do need vaccines and a vet check as well to make sure they are healthy and stay healthy and also to check for worms.  
 forgot to attach this feeding them this dry food mainly along with the kitten milk. i will vaccinate them as soon as i am able to go take them when i have the time and can afford to do so. first was told by my cousin that it would be in 4 months i would have to but thanks to the internet realized about 2 months is when i should be vaccinating them. just to be clear again is it totally normal that they still drink the milk and also some dry food. despite having dry food they still act cute and ask for their milk and just want to be certain because these milk cost $10 for each one and they still haven't shown a slightest change in their diet. thanks for all the advices so far    
  a lot of cats urinate on plastic bags or rubber-backed floor mats. presumably it's the smell that attracts them, so all you can really do is make sure none are left lying around.   
 especially if its on the kitchen table.  
 hello and welcome to tcs. sorry it's litter box avoidance/territorial peeing that brought you here.   how old is your female cat? if she is 6 months or older, it could be hormonal, so i would suggest getting her spayed and seeing if that helps.  a vet checkup is also a good idea, because she could be suffering from an uti.  how well does she get along with the other cat? have they always lived together?  
 hi rhody - the pooping and vomiting themselves aren't cause for euthanasia. they do indicate that your cat has some kind of health problem that needs to be looked into. have you spoken with your vet about them? s/he can run additional tests to figure out what is going on.  
 sorry you're dealing with litter box issues, and vomiting, but unless it is being caused by a terminal illness, or your cat is in pain, it is not a reason for euthanasia.  how is her overall health? and behaviour? anything change before all this started?  does she ever poop in the litter box? and when she doesn't, is it hard like she's constipated? or more like diarrhea. either can cause litter box avoidance, especially if it hurts her to go.  my ruby has a sensitive digestive system, and i have to be careful not to feed her too much of the wrong food, or she'll have outside the litter box accidents.  and the vomiting... is it hairballs? undigested food? has she had a history of vomiting?  is there a cat only vet in your area? if so, maybe try getting her into to see someone who specializes in cats. or at least another vet, for a second opinion.  
 i second the questions about overall health and behavior. does she pee in the box without issue? how many boxes does she have?  also i've heard some people recommend trying to use puppy pee pads for cats who won't use the litterbox. maybe see if she'll go on one of those? you can spread them around in the areas she's gone, in case she's just having trouble getting to the box in time. at least the cleanup will be easier until you can figure out a better solution for the box.  one last thing to try: clean the areas where she's pooped with an enzymatic cleaner. if she can still smell the spots where she's gone before she's more likely to do it again.  
 we had a similar issue with yoshi who is 12. we tried every litter, pine pellets, and torn newspaper with no success. after 2 weeks leaving a puppy pad in a low sided box he finally got the idea after we put a poop on it. he never liked the feel of litter and perched on the side of the box until he couldn't anymore.  do you have a box on each level of your home? at 17 she might need it closer whether for pain, urgency, or just a reminder of where to go potty.  
 thanks for the replies everyone. she is peeing in the litter box just fine... just will not poop in them. she has two litter boxes, with a different type of litter in each. sunday i picked her up and put her in the litter box when i saw her wandering around the basement... she sniffed and immediately squatted and pooped and i told her what a good girl she was... but then yesterday she pooped on the floor 3 different times in three different spots. of course once was upstairs right in front of my husband...who is not a fan of cat poop all over the house. i'm not sure if she is in pain. she was on cosequin for her arthritis but it gave her diarrhea so the vet had me stop. i'm wondering if she is going senile in her old age or if she is starting to go incontinent.  
 years ago, i had a cat dying of, don't remember for sure, but probably multi-organ failure related to kidney disease. he didn't really move much, and was incontinent, but he would still purr like mad when petted. that was such a hard choice. we set him up in the basement with pads and dealt with it. in retrospect, i'm not sure it was the right choice since cats are such troopers and don't really show pain. he probably felt it though, and had no real quality of life despite being happy about being petted due to the total immobility and laying in his own pee for hours when we were working. anyway, the difference between the two scenarios was that my cat was obviously in the process of actively dying, whereas yours doesn't seem to be. that is how i see it anyway?  
 are both litter boxes in the basement or do you have one on each level? having more available will help remind her where to go.   when she goes outside the box has it always been where there are strong family scents (your bed, fresh washed papa, dog bed)? if it has been i'm not sure what it would indicate. maybe some insecurity/senility.   what is the vomit? hair, food, liquid? my 12 yr old is short haired, and gets hairballs easily. i brush him daily and cover places he likes to sleep with baby blankets that i can change so he has less access to hair he can swallow. he rarely vomits now but wasn't the solution to the poop on the floor.  cosequin helps arthritis from getting worse not the pain that goes with it. did the inappropriate pooping start after stopping the cosequin? have you asked your vet about a mild anti-inflammatory or pain reliever? if the vet restates that they can't do anything i'd get a second opinion.  is she getting enough fluids? offering her broth could boost her intake. is she getting mostly dry food? if so transferring her to wet might help.   since she used the box when you noticed her wandering around how about taking her to the box regularly? 15 - 30 min after a meal, every 2 hrs when home at least until you get an idea on when she needs to go.  
 i would second the idea for another pain medication for arthritis, and to put down some puppy pads for her. have you added some litter boxes to floors besides the basement?  is she having loose stools?   is she declawed by any chance?  
 i don't even know how to start on this one without writing a wall of text, but i'm going to do my best here. i really, really need you guys help.  my husband and i used to work with my local humane society fostering kittens and sick cats, and catching and releasing ferals back into communities, until they ended this last program, meaning that they don't catch, neuter, spay and release them anymore, and they even refuse to let us borrow or even rent their traps now. as their funds either disappeared or were allocated to something else (i was never really given an explanation), i ended up with 10 cats (7 that i already owned as pets) and 3 that i was fostering, needed medical treatment and were not getting any. so, they stayed with us.   that was ok, though. we made it work for 3 and a half years, and we even had 3 of the ferals we neutered come back for the food. they made our backyard their home and they were so loved. these 3 feral cats interacted with our now 10 indoor cats just fine through our screened porch with no aggression whatsoever. we had a good financial situation, a big house, all the cats got their shots, flea meds, vet when needed, lots of love and play. they sort of ignored each other during the summer, but snuggled up together during the winter. some were even friends, or friendly, things were perfect. or so we thought.   then this new feral cat started showing up about a year ago. we fed him, and we tried to catch him ourselves with our regular trap, but he knew better than let himself in there. we needed a drop down trap. however, because he only came very sporadically, we didn't think it was justified to spend about $200.00 to buy a drop down trap. we were wrong. this cat started coming more often, and spraying all over our back yard. at that same time, i started to think i was smelling pee in my house, but it was very faint, and i wasn't really sure. then this past summer i was sure. a black light revealed that my house had become one giant litter box, and i started seeing one cat spray, even though we have 12 litter boxes around the house in very quiet places and they get cleaned at least 3 times a day. i took him to the vet (as i couldn't immediately remove what was stressing him) and they gave him medication that did absolutely nothing. he is still spraying, and 4 other cats are spraying as well.   next, as this feral cat kept on coming, the aggression started. to keep this as short as possible, the bottom line is that everybody hates everybody right now. i have to constantly separate them, even the ones that were friendly before, and new fights keep on happening. they aren't real fights - no serious wounds other than some scratched noses. they start as play fights, but since they're all stressed out because of this feral, the ones being chased don't take it as play, and the real problem begins. the stress levels go up and the spraying and peeing outside of the litter box increase, despite the already absurd number of litter boxes we have.   we then removed the carpet of the entire house, installed water proof flooring, and we now clean everything daily with an enzymatic cleaner. we also installed cameras on our screened porch so we could see what was going on when we weren't looking. then the attacks and the vocalization started. it turns out that in the last 5 or 6 months, this feral has been attacking our cats through our screened porch. as a matter of fact, he climbs on the roof and attacks the cats through the screened window on the second floor as well. the screams are awful. at any given attack, there are 4 or 5 cats growling and screaming at this feral cat that keeps climbing the screen trying to get to them. we suspect that he killed one of the small ferals we used to feed as well. we tried to intervene during their fight, but neither loud noises nor water sprays stopped him, and the small, sweet feral never showed up again. we even tried to stop feeding him altogether, to give him a chance to try and find food somewhere else, but the attacks get worse and scarier when we do that.  so, we now have a drop down trap, but so far, he hasn't gone in yet. we just don't know what to do and we're kinda desperate. even if we catch him, our local humane society still isn't doing good - he will be put down for sure, but i'm not sure our cats, or us for that matter, can cope with this for much longer. we thought about driving him to another location, but that's definitely illegal and it strikes me as unethical too. so i guess i need you guys to tell me what would you do in our position, because we can't decide what's fair to do in this situation. we know it isn't the cat's fault, but we have to protect our own and ourselves from the consequences of this stress.  after that problem is solved, we will install blackout curtains in our porch to prevent anything like that from happening in the future. we will also do crate training and litter box attractants to re-educate our cats, but is that a good idea? i mean if some cats are ambushing other cats in the litter box without the attractant, wont the attractant make them even more protective of the littler boxes? i'm really lost on this one as well.   ***if that was too long for you to read: i need to know what is the ethical thing to do to an aggressive feral that taught 5 out of my 10 cats to pee and spray inside the house and that is also trying to attack them through a screened porch, causing them great stress and tension. i would also like to know if litter attractant won't make the litter box ambushing problem worse.   if you read this whole novel, thank you so very much. i skipped a lot of details and things we already tried to try and make this short, but it didn't really work - it's a really complex situation. any advice is much appreciated.  
 it is advised to bring him down every time he jumps to the counter to discourage the behaviour. you can also say no, put aluminium foil, double- sided tape on the counter, and reward him everytime he does not jump on the counter. however, none of these worked for us. i just have to agree with your friends that you were lucky with the first cat. we were lucky with our first and second cats, too. but thanks to our third cat she teached all of them how to jump on the counter  then on the refrigerator, then on the kitchen cabinets…  if you really do not want them to jump on the counter i guess not allowing them to kitchen is the only exact solution.  
 cats do not respond to discipline like dogs, they are not a member of a 'pack' and live to please their alpha member. physical discipline like smacking, spraying with water, and yelling only make them afraid of you and sneaky. three months old is a baby. unless you teach them otherwise, he is curious, exploring as all kittens do, and testing the limits of the household. every time, hold him still by the loose skin on the back of the neck, say no very loudly to show you are displeased, and set him on the floor. consistency is the key as it is with any toddler. this is how a mama cat would discipline. you could get some double sided tape, cats hate the feel on their feet, or my personal favorite is to get a length of clear carpet protector with those little nubs on the back, keep it designated for just the counter so it is clean. and put it nub side up. it hurts their feet to walk on it and keeps them away from areas you don't want them in. it really works. the thing i like is it is easily removed and replaced. it would just be until they learn to avoid the area. cats are smart, he'll learn quickly.  kittens are a handful, a bundle of energy that never stops. there are going to be many more battles, just as there is with raising any baby. don't lose the war by being too rigid. there are things we can accept and change on with our family members and some we cannot. if your husband truly can't accept a cat on the counter than you will have to work on finding an acceptable solution. try the carpet protector, with one cat i had it all over my house! but it worked to train him!  
 lol about your other cats learning bad habits from the kitty! sounds like they get a lot of exercise at your house! you're right, if my husband can't get over it, we'll just have to keep them out of the kitchen. my friend (a dog person) suggested a baby gate. she freaked out when i told her he easily jumps 6 or 7 feet!  
 the collar in the pix is good. what i called the vest. figure 8 they probably don’t make anymore. it was one continuous strap that looped like an 8.  
 hi,  try different toys. sometimes some toys attract an interest and some don't. it really is a process at time.  also, make sure the toy acts like prey. make it act like a mouse or a bird. she which one they react most to. some cats only like to hunt on the ground, others like prey in the air. move the toy around corners, like the toy is hiding. have the toy stop then move slowly. get their attention and have them stalk it then pounce then repeat.  also, after play feed treats or a meal.  for ember try to have the others distracted so she can get a really good play session in.  play is an excellent way to build confidence. and a confident cat will be more likely to get along with others.   we want to replicate what cats do in the wild - hunt, capture, kill, eat.   some cats are more difficult to get to play but if we make it like the wild and make the toy act like prey it usually gets them going. just keep working at it and think like a mouse or a bird and make the toy act like they would and try different toys.   some cats are more solitary and others are more social. but the more confident cat is the more happy they will be.   hope this helps.  
 i actually have a laser pointer. the dog, however, is obsessed with it and sits there and whines until i let her play. then i read it could be frustrating for dogs since they can't catch it and i stopped using it. the dog and ember enjoyed it immensely and ash would join in occasionally, but never frost. or at least rarely.  ember also loves catnip. the boys like it, but not as much. however, the most she normally does is roll on it.  about the aluminum foil, would that be easy for them to eat? it's an interesting idea but frost likes to eat things he's not supposed to and the dog occasionally tears things up when we're gone. i can pick it up when we leave, but i still worry about frost.     calicosrspecial said: ↑  hi,  try different toys. sometimes some toys attract an interest and some don't. it really is a process at time.  also, make sure the toy acts like prey. make it act like a mouse or a bird. she which one they react most to. some cats only like to hunt on the ground, others like prey in the air. move the toy around corners, like the toy is hiding. have the toy stop then move slowly. get their attention and have them stalk it then pounce then repeat.  also, after play feed treats or a meal.  for ember try to have the others distracted so she can get a really good play session in.  play is an excellent way to build confidence. and a confident cat will be more likely to get along with others.  we want to replicate what cats do in the wild - hunt, capture, kill, eat.  some cats are more difficult to get to play but if we make it like the wild and make the toy act like prey it usually gets them going. just keep working at it and think like a mouse or a bird and make the toy act like they would and try different toys.  some cats are more solitary and others are more social. but the more confident cat is the more happy they will be.  hope this helps.click to expand...  we have several toys. balls, mice, fishing rod toys, interactive toys that send "prey" spinning in a circle. none of them last. the most recent ones have been destroyed by the dog. any that survive her get lost or are quickly no fun. and i have noticed their preferences. frost likes it dangling over his head or moving swiftly across the floor, but his interest is short lived. ash likes it on the floor, but stares at it more than he chases. both of them normally leave after a couple of minutes. ember is okay either way. she'll chase it across the floor or leap after it. she does backflips too though she's not so graceful in her landing. i've had a number of scares thinking she was going to get hurt. overall, frost is pretty much uninterested, ash prefers to watch, and ember loves to play but is too skittish.  how do you suggest i keep the other two distracted? as much as it would probably help, i'm pretty much on my own and can only be in one place at a time. any help as to how i might go about this would be greatly appreciated. i do want to be able to play with ember so that way she gets the exercise she needs, is interacting and isn't completely isolated, and i hope it gives her the confidence boost she needs.   
 i will try again and see if there's anything that will get the boys to move. they do play with each other though so at least it's not like they don't play at all. the only thing i can think of is if i feed the boys early and then feed ember later. then my only concern would be them taking her food. they all steal each other's food and even when there's three bowls, you'll find someone at the wrong one.  currently, we have two cat stands and a flat scratcher. they also have their own bed because they kept laying in the dog's. of course, they still prefer the dog's. ember, honestly, is probably the least interested in the high places. you normally find ash there. she likes to spend time in my room and there is a cat stand in there that she lays on, but she seems to prefer my bed. i would like to get another cat stand at some point in time though. maybe i'll try one of those short scratching posts? i can't say i've noticed her being one to scratch frequently, but she does seem to like to put her claws in things such as the computer chair.  
 maybe it was just one of those times, she was hungry or something. it was good that she rubbed your hand. getting her scent on you, owning you. let's monitor and watch what happens next time when she doesn't want to play.  it is common for when a scent to change another cat can be different. scents are very important to cats. their own for ownership especially but also to know the other cat's and that they are not a threat.  ash's behavior is probably helping ember to misbehave. and when a cat acts like prey (runs away) then they are viewed as prey and a cat can continue to bully a little. and ember seems to be protective as well. if you see ember starting to get "funny" just distract with play or calling her. anything to dissuade her from chasing etc. that will help ash's confidence and hopefully cause him to act less like prey (because ember wont chase). so anything we can do to help ash be more confident especially when ember gets in one of her moods that could help diffuse the situations. because if ember doesn't bully then ash will not act like prey and we can break the negative cycle. the fact they do get along at times and he does groom her tells me it will be fine.  ember is more timid because she doesn't feel like she owns the territory yet most likely. and when a cat is territorially insecure they tend to be more aggressive (which is a defense mechanism). so we want to try to increase her ownership (via scent) and via play. just slowly expand her territory. play will be key as will scratching posts and bedding and cat trees (places she can own and get her scent on).  ember actually sounds like a great cat. she gets along (other than once in a while). no one has really fought i am guessing. correct? how long have you had ember?   keep distracting with play or food or a calm and confident voice. please keep working on playing. use scratching posts, cat trees, bedding to increase the feeling of ownership. try to make their interactions as positive as possible. if ash feels less likely to be chased then his confidence will grow which will help his behavior and also help with ember not feeling the need to chase. cats take on our emotions so always try to be as calm and confident around them as possible.  the more confident we get ember the better it will be and it should help ash. if we can build his confidence as well that would also be helpful. just keep trying to play with them.  hang in there, i know you can improve things.  
 well, i did get them all to move last night! not a whole lot, but you know, it was better than nothing. ember is still only interested in the laser light. i started with that and then tried to change to the fishing rod toy thinking that maybe she'd play with it once she was in the playful mood, but nope. she walked away. stubborn cat, that one. well, they all are. but ash seemed intrigued by my impersonation of a frog. not enough to really chase it though. both ash and frost, particularly frost, quite enjoyed my impersonation of a moving stick. it's always an impressive feat to get frost up and moving for more than a few seconds at a time. it figures that they'd want to play with the wrong end of the toy.  they're all wonderful in their own ways and i love them very much. i wish i could give them everything, but that's an impossibility so i'll do what i can. i will admit, ember seems a bit clingy. not very, but more than any other cat i've had. i don't know if that's just the difference of having her since she was born or that that's just the relationship we have, but we're definitely bonded. she likes to know where i am and helps me with just about everything. i've also noticed that she hates being locked up unless i'm there. after bathing the boys, we usually put her up in my room at night or they'll keep us up. she won't even try to get out if she knows i'm staying with her, but if i'm not then she's constantly tense and waiting to escape.  
 i got them all to move again last night as well though not as much. ash went after the laser light once. he runs in straight lines. it's kind of weird. he'll run a couple of extra feet when the toy went to the side.  um, i'm not sure. how long does it take for them to be weaned again? i always forget. we kept her mother until they were at least close to being completely weaned. i'm pretty sure they wanted to nurse long after they were supposed to though.  her birthday is in april so she'd be just over three years.  hmm... probably not in the best manner, but it was a rather stressful time with two boys who weren't used to other animals, a cat who wanted to attack them, and two kittens that needed to be socialized. at first, they were always separate. midnight (ember's mother) and the two kittens mostly lived in my mom's room and the boy's would have full range of the house. then we'd switch. put the boys in my room and let midnight out. once the kittens got old enough that they didn't need to be with her, we started letting them out of the room while the boys had full range. the boys are really laid back and don't have a violent bone in their bodies so it wasn't all that dramatic. they would growl if a kitten got too close, but otherwise they'd just keep their distance. i would try to a hold a kitten just far enough that they wouldn't growl or feel the need to run away, but where they were forced to acknowledge the kitten's presence. it was all rather peaceful, really, compared to when we brought the dog into the house.  that's a tough one. she's definitely not like to boys who come around for attention every now and then but otherwise want their space. she's not much of a cat-cat at all, really. more of a people-cat. it's hard for me to say since i've never had a cat who's been this attached, but i don't think i'd go quite so far as saying she's completely reliant. she's come to prefer a human's company over that of another cat's, that's for sure. and it's entirely my fault, but she has come to learn that she can get attention pretty much any time she wants. i have completely spoiled her. she'll get right in the middle of whatever it is i'm doing to get attention and she knows she can get it.  
 great that they can be near each other and still have some of them play. great!! anytime they are together and they are focused on something else (so not view as a threat) it is a positive.   i love this post!! this is so positive. you are doing a great job!! ember sounds like she is making progress because of you and play. just keep up the great work.  there are 2 benefits from play: confidence building and exercise. a confident cat is less likely to attack or be attacked. and of course exercise is good for their health. so there are a lot of benefits but i think oyu are starting to see ember's confidence be built. this is great.  i wish every animal owner was as great as you, as loving and caring. if they were, animals the world over would be a lot better off. i think you are an awesome person!! you are giving them the most precious things in life: your love and your time. please be proud because you deserve to be.   please keep up the great work and please feel free to update me or ask anything anytime. i am happy to help. you are doing a great job!!  
 thank you so much for all the help and motivation. i'm happy to do my best for them. however, i'm posting now for an entirely different reason. i figured since i already have someone here and reading this and i'm hoping it blows over soon, i'd just post here. i'm also trying to be quick. i have to get up early and have to take a shower tonight and all these precautions. i have a problem though and i don't know what to do. i fed the cats tonight just like normal. normal time, normal place. i know they eat rather close, but i've never had an issue other than, of course, when the boys get a bath. i don't know what happen, but all of a suddenly i heard hissing and the cats took off running. for some reason, ember had attacked ash. i don't know why. i had walked out of the room just moments before and they don't even eat next to each other. i always keep frost in the middle since he doesn't have a problem with anyone. so i don't know if ash did something or what, but she went after him with her tail all puffed out. i managed to grab her and brought her food in my room, but i hadn't shut the door quite all the wall to block her in because it doesn't normally take long for her to get over it. well, she came out and she went and sat by the table while i was playing with the dog. i couldn't see her for a while, but her tail hadn't been puffed up and all was okay for a while. then i saw her streaking through the room and right after ash again. i had to run after her and grab her by the scruff and lock her in my room. i played with her again and let her eat. i carried her out of my room to let her see him but she was still rather tense so i left her for a bit and then let her come out to investigate. i really don't think i helped. after two attacks, i was really nervous and trying to stay calm, but it's hard. her home here started very precariously since we were only supposed to have two cats and i'm terrified something will happen and someone will be injured and i'll have to give her up. at first i kept ash close to me, but he left and so then i was nervous about her going after him. she ended up growling and so i put her up again. i can't have a cat in my room tonight so we have to lock to boys up in another room which i don't like because i don't know how it feels in there at night during summer. there's no heating or a/c out there, but it should get cooler at night. i'm hoping this all blows over on it's own, but i don't know. she normally gets over it fairly quickly and yet this time it happened twice. i don't know what to do. i guess we'll see if there's any problems in the morning, but advice would still be greatly appreciated even if it turns out to only be for future reference.  
 i didn't really expect a response right away. it was really bad timing. i feed them dinner at eight and that's when it happens. i've never noticed any feral cats, but i can't be for sure. we do frequently throw leftover food outside for birds and squirrels and there's a bird feeder outside. i haven't seen it attract any cats, but i can't say i really see what comes and eats the food either. we do open the window and had it open earlier that day. i can't say i remember if it was still open when i fed them, but they don't eat near any windows.  ash would hide when it happened, but he gets over things fairly quickly. if he acted weird, i didn't notice. he just sat around. right now he's in a window behind the curtains. i don't know if he's hiding there or just wants to be there. unfortunately, we're still having problems. all is calm right now, but she was glaring him down and had him stuck behind the computer stand. i had to have my dad grab her and bring her over but she kept glaring and growling so i had him put her in my room. she's acting like he had a bath or something but i've no idea why. she doesn't usually search for him like this unless his scent is changed.  honestly, this couldn't have happened at a worse time. i had to have surgery today which is why no one was allowed in my room last night. i'm pretty much stuck on the couch and am incapable of really doing much. in fact, i'm leaving in a few days so my mom can go back to work and i won't be back until next sunday. my mom is going to have to take on my responsibilities which i hate to do but i will try to remind her to play with the cats as well as the dog.  
 thank you. it was nothing too severe. something the doctors have dealt with a lot. i'm just a bit young. i'm doing fine though i do hate being so dependent on someone. i'm just on quite a bit of pain meds right now and i can't get up on my own or walk around much.  now that you mention it, that could have been it. it's kind of weird that it happened during feeding time, but none of them were particularly playful last night and someone could have stuck his head into her food bowl. up until yesterday, i did pretty good at not thinking much about the surgery, but last night was a bit stressful for me. i even gave my self sores in my mouth. and she is fairly attached. i've had some trouble keeping her from walking on me today.  i tried calling her when she was staring at ash, but she wouldn't even budge. normally she would back off immediately. like i said, i will be leaving and won't be around, but that could be for the best. it could give them the chance to stop relying on my emotions since i am a very anxious person. i will bring it up to my mom to try to distract her if there's any more problems and i'm going to (attempt) to text her everyday to play with them. however, things do seem to have blown over. maybe because i'm more relaxed after being put on medication and being able to lay around at home. i've learned my limits and with movement and whatnot so i don't think i'm quite as stressed. ash came out of the window though and ember walked over to sniff him. then my mom brushed them all and gave them treats. all seems to be going well though my mom didn't want to take a risk tonight and so ember is in my room with me. she offered to put the boys up in the back room again, but it would've been pointless to take their freedom way especially when there's two of them and only one cat box out there. ember is fine in my room and that's where she spends most of her time.  if something else happens, i'll get back to this as soon as i can, but otherwise i'm not sure when i'll be on. i seem to have gotten over my grogginess, but who knows? maybe it'll be back tomorrow. so if i don't respond, it's probably safe to assume things are going okay. i should definitely be on by tomorrow night though just to let you know what's going on.  
 ember has definitely been on my lap a lot today. ash came over and laid by me. he's not a very sociable cat and doesn't like touching other than being petted so for him to put his head against me, let alone put his head on my hip, is very special. ember laid behind him for a while. my mom is afraid of playing with them now because she doesn't want to cause any issues, but, while i'm not so cripple i can't flash a laser light around, i'll be leaving tomorrow afternoon and i'm not going to be here to do so. i have to decide whether or not i want to take the dog with me though i'd really rather not worry about her.  i'm getting better. it's a bit of a struggle to get up, but i'm able to move around relatively painless and have been going for short walks. ember's been wonderful to have during all this other than the fact that she made me knock my glasses off the table at four twenty this morning and i couldn't bend over to pick them up.  
 cats can sense our emotions and i am guessing they both are wanting you to get better. it is really sweet that they are loving you so much. it is also wonderful they were together with no incident. cats really can helps us as we can help them. wonderful.  i understand your mom's concerns. if she feels anxious then they could feel anxious so maybe it is best for now. ask her to use food to help keep them happy. if she does have less anxiety then playing would be good. anything to make them happy and tire them out a bit. but if she isn't comfortable then it may not help anyway. just ask her to be as calm and confident as possible around them. i am guessing ember might be pretty subdued when you are gone but it is only a guess. i think they will behave pretty well but it is always tough to know. let's hope i am right.  it is a tough call on taking the dog. cats do not like change. if you don't take the dog are you worried about how ash might interact with the dog causing ember to be more difficult?  i am so glad you are feeling better and recuperating. great news. there is always something, hopefully the glasses didn't break.  
 i think you made the right decision with the dog.   i take it the dark shape was ash? it does sound a little strange (maybe a little territory thing going on?) and out of character but it sounds like it really wasn't bad. when things like this happen it is how they act after the incident that can tells us a lot. if they rebound and act normally shortly thereafter then it was just a minor incident. if a cat hides, avoids areas, etc then it was a bigger deal and we need to do more work. it sounds like this was just a minor incident. it sounds like they returned to normal quickly. you did a great job with them, handled it very well. i am glad there were no incidences the next day. so it probably wasn't too bad.  your scenario makes sense.   oh, you were not an "idiot" when you lurched forward, you were like we all would be, we reacted to something. please don't be too hard on yourself. i would have done the same thing. i am glad you didn't hurt yourself though.  please remember, i will check the site tomorrow night and then will not have access to the internet for 15 days. so june 18th when i back i will check the site. i am very sorry but i will be in a place that i will not have internet access. but i know you have a lot of knowledge and when i am back i am happy to help again.  hope you are recovering and that all goes well. i will be around until tomorrow night and then will check the site on june 18. get well and don't worry, you will do great with them.  
 our ex-stray gypsy doesn't like balls, catnip, climbing in boxes or most of the normal cat toys i have bought for her (thank goodness for store return polices) her favorite toy is a shoe lace tied to a window blind wand to chase & jump for and lately a jackson galaxy segmented worm-like item. sometimes she will play with a laser, at the end of play we always toss a stuffed toy into the laser path for her to make a 'kill' so she doesn't get frustrated. this would be a good thing for the dog too. we have a sturdy harness and take her outside into her old stomping grounds. more sniffing and laying down rather than actually walking.  
 @dustydiamond1 : i would like to take them outside. we let them out on the porch sometimes, but watching three cats is difficult and we have a lot of dogs in the neighborhood. at least one of them has been known to get out. eventually, i want to start letting them out back, but of course that means i have to start keeping up on cleaning the yard after the dog. i might try using a toy with the laser light though.[/quote]  yes, three would be too many. is there any way to just take ember out solo? we carry cross country ski poles in case of loose dogs and her harness is sturdy enough to lift her away from trouble if need be. how are you doing on your recovery?    
 how are you feeling?   
 i'm fine. i learned the hard way to not push what i eat, but everything seems to be going okay. the incisions itch more than anything.  
 i am glad you are feeling better.  it sounds like it was ash. i can't figure out the growling. but things like this happen sometimes. the good news it they went back to normal.   i am leaving tomorrow and will be back in 2 weeks. get well and just keep up the good work. you situation is actually good, i am not too worried. we just need to fine tune a bit. you can do it.  see you in 2 weeks.  
 glad you're home & doing well. sorry i have no cat advice, gypsy is my 1st experience with an indoor cat.  
 that's fine. i appreciate all the help you've given me so far and that you're willing to continue to do so. i stopped updating partially because i forgot but partially because nothing major has happened. there have been a few small incidents, but no hissing or growling. just a couple of slaps while i prepare their dinner. i decided to feed them in separate rooms until all signs of aggression were gone.  my biggest problem right now is i'm going to get two of them to the vet. ash seems to be having issues with his back legs as he won't let me brush them without hissing and growling at me and even preparing to slap. my concern is not for my safety, but his own. he had never done anything to hurt me and i completely trust him. but ember does not take well to any aggression and always comes running to find the threat. so far i've kept them from fighting, but i'm afraid i'm going to end up with a cat fight on my lap.  i also want to get frost in because he's been going through phases of not wanting to eat which had caused him to lose weight as well as times of bullying ember. he's hissed at her and even slapped her a number of times though these phases come and go and do not always line up. however, his tormenting ember caused us to go through a time of great tension where she would chase ash on a daily basis. frost has since stopped and we've had relatively little tension.  
 you are welcome. you really are doing a good job. we are really just fine tuning here.  thank you for the additional information about frost. it is confounding. sometimes it is really not obvious. this i one of those cases. just keep your eye on any changes in body language or movements. it could be something outside, a feral marking, etc. just keep playing and building confidence and associating with good things. when we can't find the source that usually will help anyway.  yes, the key is they get along most of the time. that is why i am not all that worried. cats have dust-ups.  cats are also on different parts of the spectrum for socializing. some like other cats more than others. etc. we just have to work with their personalities.  please keep me up on how things are going and always feel free to ask any questions any time.  
 hi, about play time: my two almost senior cats (mother/daughter) can tolerate each other but have never been close. these days i am the one being exhausted after playing with my cats  (mom (pie) is overweight, the daughter (bee) is a very nervous/shy cat recovering from health issue). sometimes they just lay down and wait for me to put the toys close enough so they can stretch their paws to reach it... recently, i ordered a petfusion scratcher online (they love it btw)....it came in a way too large box so half of it was filled with a very long strip of large brown paper. i left it all piled up on the floor and they both started to run, jump and try to hide in it. one month later...its all shredded and very flat. they cannot hide in it anymore but they still like to rest together on it and love when i play with them on top of it. best toy ever!! now i need to find where to buy more paper ><.  dont give up...keep trying. the brown paper being the biggest hit so far, they also like the yeowww banana (used more as a comfort toy for my shy girl), the da bird wand and only pie like the bergan star chaser (its still good because she play with it by herself). good luck   
 it is really good that there was less tension after the half bath. i totally understand about the fireworks, it does cause issues for animals sadly. all you can do is your best to try to reduce the stress, food, play, love. at least it only happens once a year.   my best guess is frost is feeling a little insecure about ember and therefore takes it out on her. it happens all the time with a new cat. i find the existing resident cats are the ones that take it harder because it is their territory being "invaded" by the new cat. so that is why we try so hard to associate the cats with good things (especially food), to build their confidence (play, height, love) and to try to make sure every interaction is as positive as possible (no chases, no staring, etc).  the fact ember doesn't "stand up" to frost and redirects also shows a lack of confidence. once we get their confidence levels up (which it sounds like they have improved given your latest posts) the confrontations should happen less often. but it was only a hiss and it ended there. that is pretty good.  i hope ash is ok. i hope it isn't anything or if it is it can be improved.  how long have you been going to the shelter? some cats can get insecure when they smell a "foreign" cat's scent. have you noticed any changes when you come home with the shelter cat's scent on you? do you change your clothes? do you notice them sniffing by the clothes you wore to the shelter? other cat's scents can cause issues. i wonder if this has been an issue. i would love to get your thoughts if there might be any link.  it sounds like you have been doing a good job and there has been improvement. keep up the good work and i hope all is ok with ash.  
 ember was always more aloof though, correct? not as close to ash and frost? even after years of being in the same house i have seen the cat still be consider new or the "outsider". but your point is very good, it did start recently and it more random.  it is very smart to get him checked out. always best to rule out anything medical.  it really is like being a detective, we have to look for anything that might trigger a change. often times it is an intact feral marking the outside of the house causing territorial insecurity. but it can be a lot of things, anything to change the patterns and consistency of the lifestyle. anything to cause an insecurity typically. sometimes it is just a slow building of a lack of trust. one gets funny, then the other responds then it escalates slightly and over time it builds into something where the trust they had is no longer as strong. when a cat lacks confidence or is unsettled or fears then strange things can happen. a lot of times we can pinpoint the change so we default to building confidence and creating a feeling of security (cat trees to go high, scratching posts so they can "own" something, same with warm comfy cat beds, etc).  the good news is your cats are not at all acting badly. the know the line and they don't cross. i get a hiss once in a while but it stops there. it would be nice if there was never a hiss but it happens (too rough of play, a look, getting stepped on, etc). as long as it doesn't escalate and we distract and calm the situation down then we have it under control.  a lot of times cats can get comfortable with smells from the same cat (we actually use this when we do scent swapping) but it is when there are different cat's scents especially from intact males that can cause insecurity.  i am really glad you are getting him checked out. it is always best. please let me know how the vet appt goes. good luck.  hang in there, you are really doing a great job. i know it is frustrating that things aren't perfect but it sounds like things have gotten better. i know we can make it even better. don't worry, always feel free to post anytime, i am happy to try to help.  
 only hissing seems fine if there is no fight...and you said a very slow hissing? my cats are mom/daughter and the mom still hiss at her *old* baby...after 9 years frost seems to love you so much   dont let them trouble your sleep if they dont fight (i would wake up too :x )  
 no, it's nothing extreme. i have only two concerns. one being that it's frost. anyone who walks into my house can tell that he's a sweet, laid back cat. he doesn't have a problem with anyone. pretty much immediately after we brought the dog in the house, frost would follow her around and just wanted to sniff her. this is a cat that's never had an aggressive bone in his body. for him to start this all of a sudden? it's a bit concerning.  the second thing i worry about is that it does stress ember out. and she's not afraid of starting a fight. it hasn't been bad lately, but frost hasn't been bothering her much lately. in fact, he only seems to be starting up again today. but the last time he started doing this, she started attacking ash. so, while it isn't an issue now, it can become one.  i hope he loves me. it can be hard to tell. he's a friendly cat, but he's in no way clingy or demanding. not like ember who demands her attention when i get up in the morning, when i go to bed at night, and pretty much every time i move throughout the day.  
 it's honestly a little hard to say how confident ash is. i have to start paying more attention to his tail position, but he spends most of his day in the storage room on the cat stand. i preferred the cat stand in the dining room since they were still out with us (and it was easier for my photography) but my mom wanted to put it in the back room. now he pretty much stays out there except for meal times, play time despite not playing, and a couple of times to get attention. he's a fairly laid back cat, but he's not like frost who just takes everything in stride. i would say he has confidence, but not enough to fight back. when it comes to fight or flight, he definitely chooses flight.  i understand what you mean entirely. cats react to fear. a fearful cat makes an easy target. especially when the other cat has a lack of security. they rely on those instincts that tell them when to flee, when to fight, and when to hunt. i'll try to remember to keep an eye on them and see if i can find any hesitancy or anxiety.  honestly, now that i think about it, frost is the only one who doesn't care about the window. if we open one up, he'll lay in it, but he's on the cat stand the least. that's ash's favorite spot. he loves just laying up there and taking a nap as well as watching the wildlife. ember doesn't care as much for the cat stand as ash, but she gets up there and she does love watching the birds and squirrels. those two sit there and chirp at the animals outside though ember's is kind of broken sounding. frost prefers the cat stand in my room which is also by a window, but i normally keep it closed. it kind of seems like frost has less of a prey drive. ash has one, but it's harder to get it to kick in. ember basically relies on all of those instincts that a feral would need including hunting and fight or flight.  
 ash doesn't avoid any areas though, correct?  it makes sense that frost isn't that interested in play if he is not all that interested in the animals outside. getting the hunting instinct back would be helpful. how to do though..........   just keep trying to distract before anything negative can happen (a stare, hiss, growl, swat, etc). that should help ash be more confident. this really goes a long way in building confidence and trust. ash should feel less threatened by ember if she doesn't do anything negative to him.  
 yes, you are right. it is better to have no encounter than a negative one.   they are together at times when they are with you so that is a positive (and something i call "getting love"). so anytime they can smell each other or see each other and feel comfortable and avoid any negativity it is a positive. the more encounters that are neutral or positive the more trust is built. doesn't matter if it is food, play, height or love. the objective is to show the cats that the other is not a threat and is something good (or at least not bad).  
    
 i have bought many toys from lazer lights, dancing doll, feathers and everything i can think of. balls, paper bags, play mice ,yarn, tissue paper etc. i have had her for six months now and after vitits to the vet we are thinking that after being sheltered three times and two homes she has been traumatized and it wilt take time. she came to me with s broken tail and other injuries. she is adapting nicely with me, sits in my lap, let's me pet her and sleeps with me. a real sweet kitty and i don't understand how anyone could treat her so cruelly. she was removed from her last home for that reason. anyway, back to playing. i now am thinking that she was never really socialized and had no play time. i see a little bitty change come out, a paw will bat a toy if only once so i just let her go at her own pace and try every day. i am beginning to see some improvement. i love this sweet kitty and am so happy that i rescued her. i live by myself and am at home everyday and have no other animals. so with love and care i hope that she will come around and be the happy cat that she deserves to be  
 yes, they seem to be adjusting to the play in the kitchen though i bring them back into the living for half of it so ember can do her back flips and whatnot.  i moved ember just outside the kitchen in the dining room which isn't much of a difference distance wise (maybe half a foot), but she seems a bit calmer there. maybe she felt a bit trapped where i had her since she was in a bit of a corner. or because she was forced to have her back to them though she doesn't seem to feel the need to face him now that she's outside the kitchen.  i'm brushing them tonight and i'll see how he acts since i haven't forgotten his medication. he used to be great about brushing. he didn't like me brushing under his legs, but he learned to get through it and it would be quick. i hate doing anything that hurts him, but i don't want him to get a knot either and, honestly, i'm not sure if it still hurts or if he's just found out that he can get out of the brushing. with how he was acting about his tail, i'm leaning towards the former, but i don't know.  also, i forgot to mention i've been putting a couple of drops of rescue remedy in ember's food. i don't intend on keeping it up for long, but i was hoping it would calm her and she'd realize she doesn't have to attack. we haven't had any real attacks though we've had moments got kind of close.  
 that is great on how you are doing play.  great that ember is calmer while eating yet still close. any time they can be close and feel secure and do something they enjoy (eat) it is a big help. keep it like this for a while then try to see if you can slowly (inches) move them closer. it could have been a corner that caused her to be on edge a little. it can be small things like that. but the more they are together without incident the more trusting they will be.  it is a tough call but i am guessing it probably does hurt.  poor guy. mats and knots aren't good either. it sounds tough. at least you know how to do it the best possible way.  i actually don't have any experience with "rescue remedy" sadly.  i am so glad you haven't had real attacks. close calls are ok because that tells me that they are working things out. and choose not to attack (for whatever reason). you are doing a great job with them to get them to that point. progress.  
 a slap here and there isn't too bad. as long as it stops at that. they then learn what not to do and they should stop doing that. so, it is not too bad. i am glad it is becoming less frequent.  yeah, just be careful on cutting the knot out. but it sounds like that is probably the best thing to resolve the situation.  that is great. being together is "doing something" so as long as they are together and getting along i think it is a big positive. some cats do hiss but again as long as it ends there the message got through and the result was achieved. getting along is a positive even with only a hiss.  keep up the great work. sounds like you are doing a great job!!  
 no, the bathroom is the stuffiest room. there's no vent or window in there to let any air in. he likes to lay on the towels. him and frost have liked being in there since we moved though it's been a bit excessive for ash lately.  we ordered a third cat stand which just came in today. i found ember and frost on it, but ash was no where to be seen. i went throughout the house looking for him. found him in the bathtub. he liked the cat stand better before it was finished apparently. i do have to admit i got it more for me. i figured they wouldn't be opposed to another one. we moved their cat stand and i wanted one back where it was for my photography since that was where i got my best photos of them.  he's been in my room more since i got him in there yesterday. it's like i broke some invisible barrier. he decided he was going to come in this morning and meow and got in the window, opening the curtains.  
 hahahaha, cats. you never know!!! cats always will surprise.  at 4am typically.  my first reaction is that he wants to get his scent on you to "own" you again. the bite without breaking the skin is a love bite (just excited about you). exposing the belly again saying "i really trust you, thank you for being you". so given it is after a shower (where his scent is gone) or in the dirt (where a foreign cat's scent might be on you) it sounds like he wants everyone to know you are his and get his scent on you then i am guessing he just loves you so much he is just happy to be around you again so he gets playful. i think it is wonderful and special!!  
 yeah, i actually worried because my cats never give me eye kisses. i've tried. the closest they come is closing their eyes and turning away. ember did it once and i was thrilled. that wasn't all that long ago, actually. but i get head butts frequently and ash is a biter.  yeah, i've wondered about it, but no one typically bothers the cats except my sister and she's gotten better about it. both of the people (my brother and my dad) have nothing against cats, but they're both dog people. they come in my house and they tolerate the cats and will pet them. oddly enough though, my dad is also the only person ash has ever used his claws on and actually bit down on. my dad's socks saved him from any real damage and doesn't hold it against him. in fact, he jokes about it because ash really likes my dad's work shoes and will play with the shoe laces. i don't like this since my dad's work is staining decks, but the cat is insistent. however, the day ash bit him my dad had worn different shoes so it's become a joke saying he wore the wrong shoes and ash was mad.  that makes me feel a bit better. i always wonder if they actually like me or if they're just using me. of course, i love them either way, but it's nice for it to be mutual. i suppose it's true that humans don't show their appreciation either. i'm often accused of this myself even though i'm really just not an enthusiastic person and am socially awkward.  
 not all mine have either. i have found that some just don't do certain things. some are more aloof, some are more affectionate. it is all over the spectrum in my experience. i have had ferals be really warm outside then they come inside and bond with another cast or cats and are less affectionate to us. it is pretty amazing, interesting.  i had a biter as well that never gave eye kisses. my feral guy gives eyes kisses and is a biter. i can't figure it out. hahaha  maybe it was because he didn't have the other shoes!! it can be so many things. cat's do take on our emotions so maybe your dad was stressed that day, or was more cautious, etc. cats don't like change either so it honestly could be the different shoes (therefore he thought it was a different person). it is tough to tell sometimes. i am glad you dad doesn't hold it against ash. that is probably why it only happened once as well.  i have heard people say the same thing a hundred times. they aren't sure if the cat loves them or is using them. my experience is they are there because they love the humans and are part of the family. if they didn't they would be wanting to get out of the house etc. it is just sometimes cats don't show as much emotion. i truly believe since cats are amazingly self sufficient they only stay where they want to stay. judging by what you have told me, i have no doubt they love you. i don't get a sense they want to go elsewhere. they know they are lucky.  it is interesting you say you aren't enthusiastic and are socially awkward. i did not see that in our back and forth. it sure seems like you are enthusiastic towards the cats at the very least and your writing sure doesn't seem awkward at all to me. you seem like a great person and are intelligent. just be yourself. if you are cool when you write you are cool in person. same person, same thoughts.  
 i couldn't agree more. rats too. i had two and i would love to have them again.  i think we could all use a little more space. we're in a two bedroom, one and a half bath house right now and it's fine, but the rooms are small. i need more wall space and it could help give the cats more of their own space to get away from each other. not to mention i'd like to be able to offer them their own room to put stuff in, get the litter box out of my room, and have space for more cat stands, shelves, etc. and a bigger yard for a dog. i never intended on having a dog while living in this house.  that means a lot. i think i'm less selfless when it comes to humans, but i do what i can for those i care about and the animals. i'm not typically outright cruel though i do tend to be a bit pessimistic.  i've been on several sites. none have been like this one. i just recently found an active one to post on and was pretty much immediately chewed out for being "mean" to my dog.  cats are very complex. i think that's why we have to say "because they're cats." they have their own individual quirks just as any human does. there's no way to explain every one of them because sometimes there is no reason other than because they want to.  yeah, i want to do something i can enjoy. i refuse to be one of those people that's absolutely miserable, working for the money alone. even if it does get stressful, at least i can feel good about it at the end of the day.  
 ironically, rats are a lot like cats. they spend most of their time grooming or sleeping and they, like cats, do not feel the need to please like dogs. however, they can very easily be taught tricks. perhaps even easier than dogs as long as you keep the sessions short. eventually they figure out they can just get the treats themselves and not do the work. they're highly intelligent and very stubborn which isn't a good combination for anyone lacking patience, but they are wonderful little creatures.  yes, i like the idea of having shelves up the walls and even some tunnels along the ceiling. it might take a while, but eventually i hope to do it.  i was fine with the people who said i was doing it wrong and gave me another way, but one of them changed my words and said my dog was probably scared of me because i'm mean to her, but the dog is not scared of me. i have (somewhat) changed what i do, but some things are the same. we're slowly getting there.  yeah, it's interesting to find their quirks. ember nurses on herself when she's happy. for years, frost would "suck his thumb" as we called it though he was just suckling on his pad. my cats are just lazy though. it's my fault. i slacked off on playing for a while. i don't know how. it was part of our daily schedule and then... it wasn't. i feel bad about it and am trying to make it up. they wouldn't play last night, but i was gone for a little while.  
 i think the cats occasionally irritated one of the rats. she was both more skittish and more aggressive than my other rat and she did bite the cat once or twice as well as stella, but never drew blood. but they did all live peacefully. the smaller and friendlier rat would get out of the cage and wander the house frequently. i would walk in and she'd run up to my feet. she also tried to go outside with the dogs.  i don't think ember's codependent, but she does like to know where i am and she doesn't want any doors shut between us. she wants to have access to me. i can't shut the bathroom door without her meowing outside. it's easier just to let her come in, check on me, and leave. she hasn't been coming in as much lately though. now she just waits outside for me. she wants attention pretty much every time i move, plus some, but i think that's more upbringing than codependency. she learned she could get away with it.  i think it's too hot for snuggling right now, but i have seen them laying next to each other. they would both get in my bed a lot during winter and i'd see them snuggling there.  as long as they're fine with it, then i'm fine with it too though, i have to admit, it is a little sad to see them grow apart. they're all becoming more people cats which is nice, but it was always so sweet seeing them together.  
 i never thought rats were like cats. that is interesting!! funny they can do tricks.  interesting on ember. it is always tough to tell what is going on. sometimes it could be they are just warm, or lazy. but if she is back to wanting attention then it was transitory.   great that ash was in bed too. with ember?  a lot of times seeing another cat can cause a different cat to warm up. i have seen it many times. it is almost like a validation of the joy of it. and ash, so great. and him purring next to you. fantastic!! i love to hear this, these are really positive.   you must be really happy where they are and how they have been progressing.  
 yeah. rats are quite amazing. they're all unique individuals just like cats and humans.  ash has always been the distant and more isolated of the three. if there was one that i worried didn't like me, it would be him. however, i'm learning he's just a bit more subtle in expressing his feelings. i suppose we're the same in that manner. he's a great cat and i've long since accepted that he's not a lap cat and he's not the most affectionate cat either, but he seems to be settling in and feeling more comfortable with being affectionate as he gets older. so, while he might not greet me when i walk in like ember does or even bother coming out like he does for my dad and brother, i've realized that it doesn't mean he doesn't care about me at all. he just likes his solitude which i can't hold against him because i do too. well, at least solitude away from people.  i think getting ash in my bedroom is a good thing. it seems to have broken some sort of barrier between him and ember. he got up in bed with me earlier and ember jumped up and took a place at the bottom of the bed. at first she didn't even act like she knew he was there. once he moved around, she started staring him down like she didn't quite like him being in there, but she was quick to get over it. tried starting a play fight with frost which ultimately failed and then she ended up crawling up on the bed under the sheet next to me.  ember and ash are playing pretty consistently. frost is back and forth, but he does make sure he gets to play at least a little in the beginning. he's kind of a brat though. he chases the toy for a few seconds and then flops down in the middle of the floor so i can barely move the toy without putting it in his paws. he'll refuse to move unless i physically move him, but the second i do he jumps back into the game and repeats the process until he gets tired of me moving him.  
 yeah. cats. they're such odd creatures, but we love them for it. keeps me on my toes at least.  ash, i think, is getting more confident. he seems less affected when ember does lash out (which has become more and more half-hearted) and has gone back to rubbing on her while i make their dinner. it's always funny watching him go around and rub on everything and everyone! he'll even rub on the dog sometimes and then stop and seems to realize it's the dog.  yep, we've finally gotten somewhere. figures it took a broken toy to do it, but we did it. they aren't playing for long periods of time yet, but at least i seem to be able to maintain interest. except, of course, with frost. he is such a dork. sometimes i don't know what to do with him. love him, i guess. not much else to do. it's always entertaining to watch him go after the toy when he does though. that rapid army crawl thing he does.  
 ash sound a lot more confident. that is so important. rubbing on her? i mean that is great. he wants to own everyone!!  we never know, broken toy, etc. whatever works is great. at least they are playing. length would be nice but any play is good. builds confidence.  frost is funny. what a way to hunt!!  you really have done a great job with them!!  
 yeah. he used to rub on everyone all the time during the preparation of meals, but he became so timid around her. only during that time though. i will say something happened last night, but i'm not entirely sure what. i turn to see ember on her back legs, diving down onto ash. he jerked away and shook himself and i was going to separate them, but it wasn't like what had been going on where she'd slap and it wasn't a full on fight either. that's much louder and ash always runs. they both ended up standing on they're hind legs, taking swats at each other. both had their tails held up though and i didn't do anything because it seemed almost playful and, even if it wasn't, i liked seeing ash stand up for himself.  i have been wondering though, if the issues we've had haven't been caused by a playful energy going wrong. it is not uncommon for ember and frost to play together while i make they're dinner so i'm wondering if it isn't that same energy in ember that's causing her to lash out at ash perhaps because of a tension between them due to past incidents. i don't know if there's any merit to that theory, but i do believe it started after a phase of them fighting and she does seem playful with frost in this time.  however, something special happened just a little earlier. frost had come over and laid next me and we were fighting over him wanting to knead my stomach (very uncomfortable) when ash came over as well. he sort of acted like he wanted to walk over me which i won't say never happens, but doesn't happen often. he didn't though and i assumed he wanted to get to frost, but frost was also in the way. then ash actually laid partly on me! he laid about half way across my stomach and frost took the other half. then they laid there and grinned each other (mostly ash grooming frost) while i petted them. it was precious. i was absolutely thrilled! i think this is the first time ash had every willingly laid on me!   frost ended up leaving, but ash rolled over and tucked himself under my stomach, right up against my side and stuck around for a while. i might have jumped up and down in joy if i was trying to avoid disturbing him and i'm not one to do such a thing.  
 i didn't think i had to worry about it. there was no hissing, no growling, no issues before or after. the first time she went after him, he moved away and then went right back up to her which was when they had they're boxing matching. the only time their tails lowered was when they stood up on their hind legs which is to be expected.  it was a wonderful experience. i couldn't even be upset that they laid in front of my tablet. it's not often ash lays so close, let alone actually on me.   my only complaint is that last night was the second night ember didnt demand attention and this morning the second morning. she still demands attention throughout the day, but it's odd not having her under my feet at night. it's kind of funny how someone makes you do something routinely and you just resign yourself to doing it only to realize how much you actually enjoyed it when they stop.  
 ash bit me today... not exactly an uncommon occurrence, but normally i at least do something to provoke it. pet his side or his stomach or something. today i was scratching his cheek and he had his front leg over my arm. then he randomly grabbed my arm, bit down, and kicked me. it was probably one of his hardest bites though he still didn't break skin. the kicking seemed overall half-hearted. it's something something that's all that concerning, but it was a bit odd. he went back to rubbing on me and purring immediately after. i told him that biting was rude. i don't think he cares.  ember seems fine and she said good morning to me this morning. i'm hoping that it means she's more secure. i mean, if i'm losing that part of my routine then i'd like it to be a good thing. she's taken to the new cat stand though. probably because she doesn't have to share with ash. he gets up there and they take turns, but i think he prefers the old one and he's still hanging out in the bathroom a lot. frost seems to like my shoes all of a sudden.  
 i didn't expect that. was he overstimulated? usually it happens when they are overstimulated. it sounds like a love bite (depending on exactly how he did it) since he didn't break the skin (so his goal wasn't to hurt) and he went back to rubbing and purring. my feral black cat is a biter (love bites) and he will give a quick nip of me or the other ferals (never breaking the skin). but i see it and experience so i know exactly what it is.   ash wasn't aggressive when he did it, right? how did it differ from previous bites?  great that ember is doing well. my sense is she is more comfortable and confident. great that she likes the cat tree. having multiple places for them can help a lot (to give them some space and territory to own).  frost likes your shoes? where you with other cats/animals?  
 i tried cutting their nails in a different way today and he bit me a few times during that, but it went well overall. it didn't hurt, he didn't even leave a mark. i'm probably just going to live with his nipping. it doesn't bother me though my mom worries about me getting hurt. i have complete faith in him. he's given me no reason to fear him.  well, i'm pretty sure i've been there with male kittens before, but they are there. i might have had one lingering on me a bit more this past time, but not on my shoes.  frost just lays on them. he acts like they're the most comfortable pillow in the world. it wouldn't stand out to me if it wasn't for the suddenness of it and the frequency. he also used to follow me everytime i took the dog out, but now i can actually open the door without worrying about him daring out. well, sometimes. it's kind of 50/50 now.  so last night ember went at ash again. i turned around to see her diving down onto the back of his neck. i almost intervened because she seemed to hold on a little too long and ash tried to duck away, but i wanted to see how it ended. again, there was no hissing, no growling. ember acted like nothing happened afterwards. ash seemed perhaps a little wary of her. shortly after i saw ash lowering his paw as if he had been prepared to slap her or actually did. should i continue letting them work it out or should i start intervening? i'm kind of stuck because, on one hand, i want ash to stick up for himself and not rely too much on me, but on the other hand, we've come so far in building up his confidence and i don't want to lose that.  
 that makes sense that this time he had the freedom to bite. not many cats like their nails cut sadly.  ash is no different. at least he didn't break the skin.  let's watch frost. as long as he seems normal (acting like he always does) i wouldn't worry too much. it is always hard to tell what drives some of the behavior. usually it is scent driven but it could be that the shoes have a cooler feel.   so it was during feeding time. it is great ash was normal after it. it could be ember was excited about eating and still "amped up" with the play. if she plays will frost before dinner then it makes sense she wanted to play and chose ash. actually if that is the case i think it is a nice positive.  yes, it is hard to distract when distracted yourself!! i know the feeling well.  so i would probably just call her name next time and say something like "look what we have, dinner" or something. just to make sure it doesn't escalate.  but as long as they were ok after it i am not too worried and i actually think it was more play. but it is tough to know not being there and knowing the animals etc.  my ferals will play (jump on each other as well when waiting to be fed). then when the food comes all the focus is on the food. now if they were staring at each other and not eating then i would say there is a problem. if that makes sense.  
 wow. that is impressive. you have the magic touch!! i wish mine would be like that (or that i could have the magic touch).  cats can seem aloof but underneath they can care in a huge way. i was just talking with someone who was sad that their cat doesn't seem to care. and the cat jumped in their lap and cuddled. it was there, it just had to have a chance to be shown.  yeah, just do your best and slowly move the bowls closer. if one seems one edge then move the food back a little to where they will eat comfortably. just use your judgement. we just want them to be together enjoying something good (food) and not having any negative encounters. i use food all the time when doing the meet and greets. usually treats but meals too.  yes, it is hard because baths cause the animal to smell different (not like themselves). you may want to post a new thread on how best to bathe a cat without causing a different scent. or something like that. i wonder if someone has a trick.  you have done a great job with them.  
 i really hate thinking ember feels insecure or seeing the signs of her lack of confidence. i love her want only the best for her and the others so knowing she doesn't feel completely safe in her surroundings is a bit distressing. we have came a long way though.  i suppose it could work either way depending on how you think about it. a different species is threatening because of the unknown. the same species is threatening because of the known. there might be some curiosity and/or confusion when it comes to dogs and that isn't there with other cats. my dog loves cats though and it took her some time to realize she couldn't just bound up to them whenever she wanted.  it could be like with human mothers. they tend to worry a lot, but those are instincts that keep the kids safe. mother cats have to be able to keep their kittens safe too so maybe they're natural worriers as well.  it is interesting how cats work. that enemies can become friends is amazing. humans could learn a thing or two from them. they're truly wonderful creatures.  i did move embers bowl last night. she seemed very confused by the few inches of difference and seemed hesitant about it, but that could just be because it was moved. she only looked at ash once and settled down.  my mom said there was a fight one night. they were all in her room and she thinks ember jumped up on her bed, startling ash, and causing him to hiss. of course, ember doesn't take well to hissing so she attacked. they're all fine now though. they're all in my room together though in different locations.  
 so i don't normally bother sending a second post even if there is an issue that occurs after i reply, however, i felt that this was big enough that it deserved special treatment.  all of today we've had no issues. i think ember slapped the dog once, but that was minor. while i was gone though, my mom cut back on ash's glucosamine. he's been throwing up a lot since starting it though it's just liquid normally accompanying the uncommon furball. i don't know how much she cut back, but i was intending on putting him down to half a capsule at night since they do contain quite a bit. anyway, i brushed them all tonight and ash was giving me a very hard time. he didn't even want to lay on one side. he's usually very good about this, but tonight i had to keep correcting him and he eventually started doing this sound that's like something between a drawn out meow and a growl. when i tried to touch that back food, he immediately tensed up enough that i didn't want to force his leg away from his body out of fear of hurting him and began growling. i gave up and moved on to the other side which was immensely better, but he still would not let me brush for very leg. i'm unsure as to whether or not this is related to the problem we now have, but we're thinking it probably does.  to be completely honest, i have no clue what happened. i've been going over different scenarios trying to figure out what possibly could have happened, but i don't even know where each cat started off at. my mom and i were in her bedroom talking and i know ember often likes to "stand guard" in the doorway when i'm in there and i know she was just out of the doorway when the incident ended. i know ash likes to be in my mom's room and i know he had been in there earlier, but am not sure if he had been in there when whatever happened, happened.  all i really know was that there was scrambling/claws-in-fabric kind of noise and then ash was one the bed, ember being effectively spooked. honestly, it all happened so fast that i don't even remember what happened to bring my attention to it. i would imagine ember spit or hissed, but i'm not sure. ember was standing just outside the doorway as still as a statue. from my position, i could only see part of her back end, but i could tell all of her fur was standing on end. ash was laying on the bottom of the bed and seem extremely uncomfortable. he was kind of twitchy/jumpy, acting like he wasn't sure what to do. ember was finally starting to calm and wanted to investigate when, for some reason, ash hissed and leapt off of the bed, cowering in the corner. ember started like she was going to give chase. i'm not sure if it was my voice that stopped her or if she stopped on her own, but then she just stood there, body low, head down, ears flat. her tail was all puffed up, but she got over it and began to calm down fairly quickly. she was still agitated, yes, but her fur went down. i eventually stepped in front of her and had her back out of the room for a moment. afterwards, i went back to check on ash. i sat down by him and petted him since he seem scared (though had also calmed at this point as my mom had already been petting on him). he was okay with this, stretched out, let me stroke his side.  ember came back in and she seemed fine. i've had plenty of opportunities to observe her body language. she was very agitated and very tense, but i've come to learn that the best i can do is make her step away until her fur goes down plus a little extra time and let her figure out he's not a threat. and she was doing fine. she had her body somewhat low, but her fur was down and it seemed clear (at least to me) that she was willing to sniff and him a chance. however, he realized she was there when she was probably less than a foot a way and stared her down for a moment before starting to growl. surprisingly, instead of attacking him, ember tore off to the other side of the room towards the doorway, tail now puffed up again. and the end result of this is that ember has to stay in my room overnight for something i don't think she did. she's finally calmed down though. for a while she just stared at the door. now she seems content and relaxed.  i'm hoping this is just a one time thing, but it's extremely stressful. i tried to remain calm for them, but i'm an easily stressed person and i worry about them a lot. i'm sorry for the long post and for all the gaps, but i really don't know what happened to start this and i was so caught up in the moment that now, going back on it, i'm realizing there are a lot of holes in my memory. i'm wondering if ash didn't hurt himself running or jumping and then blamed ember for his pain.  
 well, i don't feel as bad as i did when she was frequently attacking ash. i would like to improve the situation more in the next couple of years so i don't have to worry about them on top of the stress of moving, but it's definitely better.  it's still quite amazing that cats can go from territorial to best of friends. you'd think there would be some leftover tension. i don't think i could go from full out fighting someone to being their friend.  yes, to different fights. my mom thinks ember startled ash the first time. i didn't get the sense that it was anything major.   this second time was probably the worst situation we've had and i really don't think it was ember's fault. ash tends to startle her a lot because she's so nervous about things and he tends to go running through the house, especially late at night, but i think it was mostly him this time. ember was outside of the room when i saw her so i'm thinking she ran away rather than chased him.  i can't think of any reason there would have been more stress. my mom and i were just talking though i can't remember exactly what about. it does seem likely, no matter how it started, that their history of conflicts worsened the situation.  my mom's room is still a little new to them because she used to keep the door closed so they all like it in there, but the newness is fading. it's definitely more of ash's room than ember's though i think they all hang out in there at night when i'm gone. they've never had an issue before though and they all show up at one point or another when i'm in there. ember typically stays in the doorway, looking out.  everything seems fine today. i couldn't find ash when i got up today. not entirely unusual. i ended up finding him in a carrier. also not entirely unusual. the only odd thing was that he got into the smallest carrier that was stacked on top of the biggest carrier which seems like a lot of work when there's two other carriers. he only recently came out of the storage room and they've all pretty much ignored each other.  i don't know what spooked ember, but i'm really thinking ash hurt himself and blamed ember. i mean, there have been two attacks since ash was cut back on his medicine. my mom didn't actually see what happened. maybe he hurt himself then too. i know he was really bad when i brushed him.  
 for some reason i think four is a good number of cats. i would like to have another cat since the boys are older and ember is going to end up as an only cat. of course, she'd probably enjoy the time alone, but i'm used to having at least two. so i've been debating on whether i should just let ember live it her older years in peace or get another cat around her age while she's still a bit young.  i'm sure your ferals are happy they're taken care of. it has to be better than living on the streets with no one to do so. i think cats can be happy outside too though as long as it's in the right circumstances.  he's not really throwing up much. he's always had furballs a lot, but there just seems to be more fluid with it. there's a lot more in these capsules than we used to give him. even half of one is quite a bit more. we'll probably talk to the vet, but i think it's just a bit too much for him.  they both act like nothing happened. i moved ember back to where she could see ash just in case she wasn't ready to turn her back on him, but there were no issues and i'll go back to trying to get them a bit closer.  i will definitely continue playing and ash is more than welcome to join in whenever he wants, but i won't be pushing him. i have yet to find the mouse though. they lose everything and they don't even play that much. it's kind of sad really.  that's fine. everything seems to be going smoothly. i'll try not to panic if something happens. and i'll definitely keep updating, especially if something happens. i will be getting a bit busy in the day starting this tuesday and won't be home to watch them constantly, but i think we'll manage and i'll keep an eye on things.  
 yes, i think i could pull through a introduction(i follow many of the introduction type threads) , but it took about a year for her to be okay with the dog and she was two years old for that. i feel it'll only get more difficult as she gets older. of course, i would do it only when she seems to be having no issues as far as feeling security (except maybe the baths because i'm not sure if that'll go away) and it would be some time after we move. of course, that means she'll be even older. i'll have to see when we get there, but it may just be best to leave it alone. i hate putting her through unnecessary stress.  well, there are always dangers, inside and out. there's a few more outside, but it doesn't seem anything is 100% safe. we've had a bit of a scare because we've seen a couple of spiders that resembled brown recluses; one inside and one out.  it's funny to find evidence of a good relationship when they don't act like they care about each other at all. they do seem to be doing very well and ash actually seems better already. he played a little last night and has played with the mouse a bit today. not much running, but some speed walking.  i have found the mouse. twice. it keeps getting in the closet in the hallway. it's a smart little electronic mouse. and ember keeps carrying it into my room and then meowing. she seems to really like it.  thank you. i don't have much self-confidence so someone else thinking i can do it helps. everything still seems calm though and i'll keep this updated. i'll talk to you when you get back!  
 i think it really depends on how secure and confident a cat but i understand the age concern because they do get set in their ways and don't like change. introductions are always a bit tricky and the number of cats and the cliques also have an impact. with that said, when i introduced my latest cat to the others the one i thought would be accepting was the most difficult while the one i thought would be the most difficult accepted the new cat right away. so it really depends on the personalities involved as well. it is complex. it is always difficult to know whether to add or not. we can talk about it more in the future but i think you are asking all the right questions to yourself.  oh my, were they brown recluses? i hope they weren't. you are right, there is always something to worry about.   yes, a reversion to normalcy tells us that they aren't really fearful of each other and that they have some trust. it is hard to explain but it tells me there is more trust and respect between them if that makes sense. which is great.  if i was a mouse (electronic or not) i would hide in a closet to with so many cats!! i am so glad she loves the mouse. it is cute she brings you her "kill". that is love.   you are welcome, i just see how you think through your writing. i am impressed with your knowledge and your desire. i think your cats are very lucky to have you!!  cats will have those interactions. it could be as simple as you say, someone startled another cat. your theory makes sense. once in a while i get a skirmish and a cat will have a big tail and i will be like "what just happened". totally out of the blue. and my cats love each other, sleep with each other, groom, etc. it happens but as long as it settles down shortly after the incident then it can be gotten over. and you handled them extremely well!! diffuse the situation, associate with good things and present a safe and secure situation in a confident way. you handled it very well.  yes, i know what you mean with the treats. we'll have to be careful. stepping up play is a great idea. both for weight and for confidence. let's hope she will play. hopefully the mouse will excite her.  i know how hard it is to try to maintain proper weights. just do your best but it is hard when one cat grazes while another gobbles up the food. i tend to use play to try to reduce weight as well as encouraging them to go on cat trees and run around a bit. cat shelving and cat trees can really help them especially if they see birds flying by.  don't worry, you are doing a great job. i wish every cat had a home where there was so much love and knowledge.  
 that is good. i know you will do what is needed if there is a need.   interesting, the mouse is hiding from the cats!! like a real mouse!! hahahaha  there aren't many interests better than animals in my opinion. anytime we can help a living soul be better off it is so meaningful. i think it is wonderful and says a lot about the person, the soul, of the person. caring about something else then just themselves. if more people were like that the world would be better. cats don't always show their love but there is a lot of love in them. but the love does have to be earned. you sure earned their love!! well done.  your confidence and trust in them does help them greatly. i deal with ferals all the time and if i am confident and calm it helps them feel that way. i was a crutch once so i learned the downside of being too protective. it really is art rather than science in many cases.  great that they played well!! just do your best.  just try not to stress. things work out. i know it is easier said than done though. just prioritize and do your best. your cats are in a good place so just focus on what you need to and then get past the stressful part. i am going through stress now because i have to deal with this and be away from the cats for a while. it is hard to have to do something and be away and not be able to take care of them. i have someone but it is not the same as taking care of them yourself. it is just stress of being a parent.  great, you are getting to know their preferences. ember sounds like she plays great! yes, there are a lot of cats like frost.   stare downs do happen. we do want to get past that so we do have some work to do. but it is good that they didn't fight and that they were normal after it. you did a good job breaking it up. anytime they are together without an incident it is a positive. they are working things out, getting to an understanding. they just need to build their trust in each other. so just keep building their trust, associating each other with good things, and trying to make every interaction between them as positive as possible.   have a great time. i have to leave shortly as well and hopefully will be back home in 2 weeks. i will check when i am back and see where things are. but if you are busy please don't worry. i am highly confident you are in a great place. you have the knowledge and you have the desire so i am not worried. there will be ups and downs but you can handle everything. we'll catch up when i am back home. don't worry, you can handle everything. talk soon.  
 i'm finally home. it feels like it's been forever even though it's only been three days. i've only been back a few hours, but everything seems okay. my mom didn't say anything about them misbehaving. none of them played much. friday played a little and ember showed some interest, but nothing from ash. i'm not too concerned though since this seems to be the norm after i'm going for any significant amount of time. i'm not sure if my mom plays with them when i'm gone though i know i've told her. i think they're all okay though. no issues during feeding though.  
 all is well today. i think this is the longest we've gone with no issues in a while so i'm quite pleased.  ember slept with me part of the night. i woke up with her next to me and laid with her until she started grooming and i nudged her to get her to stop. of course, she immediately started rubbing on me trying to get my attention so i had to roll over and ignore her which is always hard to do. when i got up this morning, she was very persistent in getting my attention. she was rubbing on my arm and bit me a couple of times. this biting is still fairly new and it kinda hurts. i'm not sure if it's a love bite or a pet-me-now bite though so i'm not sure if i'm going to try to make her stop. otherwise, there's nothing exciting though i'm still struggling to keep up a schedule. it should get easier though.  
 sometimes they aren't in the mood to play. it is ok. as long as they are acting normal (walking around the same, going the same places - not avoiding anywhere) then it is fine.  poor frost.  it happens, don't be hard on yourself.   
 while i understand your point, i'm not entirely worried. she's a fairly skittish cat and takes a few minutes to warm up to people as it is. so far, the only people she's bitten are my mom and me and that's still somewhat uncommon. and we don't have company over that often anyway. the only people who come over fairly often would be my dad and my sister. my dad has been bitten by ash much harder without even flinching so my only concern would be my sister, but i typically keep an eye on her interaction with the cats anyway.  yes, i always watch ember's behavior. she's come a long way though. i'm quite happy with her progress though it could improve some more. i want to do whatever i can to prevent a relapse though.  i'm definitely trying to keep an eye on everything. i worry though because frost has been showing aggression on and off for a while now and i don't know why. i'm afraid something is wrong, that he might be hitting, but i can't fix it if i don't know what it is. or if it's just him getting older, then will it get worse with time? there's too many unknowns for my comfort. i'll do my best to stay calm and keep things normal though.  yes, hopefully they'll all be fine together. maybe someday stella and frost will figure out how to play together. it's kind of funny watching the two of them.  i don't hold anything against him. it was more of a shock than anything. i gave him some time and then stroked him from his head down his back legs and he did fine. i think it was mostly just bad timing and he might have been a bit sore from me brushing.  i am happy with where we are. i'd like to boost ember's confidence some more and frost's behavior is a bit concerning, but other than that i think we're in a pretty good place.  tonight ember was the only one who played and she did play in the living room. she seemed to really enjoy it. the boys, however, were less than impressed.  
 i'm not sure about frost. i have absolutely no idea what made it worse and, to be honest, i can't remember how ember was acting before the last time he started acting aggressive, but i think it was his hissing and slapping at her that worsened her insecurity, leading to the issues we had between her and ash.  i'll watch ash closely and see how he acts. i'll try not to get bitten again too. hopefully we can get through this and get him feeling better. he's definitely improved, but i'd like to see him even better.  i'll definitely keep working with ember. i'm not sure what else i can do, but i'll keep trying. i'd like her to be confident before we move. we also want a big dog some day, but i'm not sure how she'll take to that. one day at a time, i guess.  i will continue trying to get them all to play as well. sometimes they're all for it, sometimes not so much. hopefully i'll be able to convince them to start playing consistently again.  
 yes, sometimes we do wonder if they realize. like when they see their tail and want to play with it. but they definitely know what they are doing so when they do brush your face or put their tail near your drink they are doing it on purpose much more often than not. it is there way of being affectionate.  yeah, the drive is always tricky sadly. i am not an expert on long drives but i am sure others on the site will have good ideas.  it is tricky. it really depends on the dog's personality. a feral would walk along with our big dogs and small dogs. the dogs didn't pay attention to her so she didn't perceive them as a threat. if a dog does go after a cat (wither to play or something worse) then the cat could get frightened and then be more careful. but that really depends on the dog's personality. it is difficult to generalize. i think the key is just get them acclimated to each other and trying to make their interactions as positive as possible and build trust. but some dogs do have issues with cats sadly.  poor ash.  the "tell" is usually how they act after. that is a worse reaction by ash than i envisioned.  i would keep an eye on them and try to get them to eat together without incident. ash need to build more trust. the more skittish a cat acts the more likely he will then be bullied more so we want him to feel more comfortable and have positive interactions without incidents so he can be more confident.  hahaha, all cats are brats at times. my cats and my ferals are so finicky and fussy and bratty. cats can get bored with their food and some like to change things up. different flavors, hard vs wet at times. it can be frustrating, i know very well. some cats just love what is someone else's as well.  
 everything seems fine. it would be great if there were no incidents, but i know that's unlikely, if not impossible. i would like to limit them though. they're happening a little more often than i'd like.  i was quite happy with how they reacted. i feel bad that i messed it up, but i guess there was no real harm done. ember and the dog are getting along well. earlier today ember laid on stella and me and she was quite comfortable using the dog to put her butt on.  frost is crazy about his treats though. he'll do just about anything for a treat. and he thinks he wants human food. he'll sit and watch me eat with ember and stella, but if i try to give him anything he'll sniff it for a ridiculously long time and then turn away. him and ash prefer their cat food, oddly enough.   i wouldn't worry about their not playing if it wasn't for ember being overweight. she needs to be playing more, not less. of course, i can't force her, but i'd really like to get her to play as much as possible. i do believe it's helped with her confidence too so it would be great to keep it up.  
 hopefully things will continue to improve and we'll have fewer issues. i'm happy they all get along at least for the most part and ember seems less reactive than she used to be. she's doesn't just jump into attack mode as much.  i think it's funny that ember uses the dog basically for her back end to rest on. stella handles it pretty well and we laid like that for a little while before ember ran off. ember rarely ever slaps the dog anymore. sometimes she'll be laying on a chair and stella will walk by. then ember will reach down and give her a light smack on the back. i think it's funny. stella, not so much. it's more playful than anything, but stella is still a bit wary of the cat.  yes, frost is definitely motivated. ash is less treat motivated. he used to love his soft chew uti treats, but now he'll only lick them like a lollipop and walk away. however, they all love temptations so that's what they're all getting now. even ash loves them and has done tricks to get them.  ember seems to enjoy jumping on my bed. that's how i usually get her to play in the morning. she's not so keen on jumping off the bed though so it gets a bit tricky after that.  
 well, i'll do my best. i want them to have the best lives possible.  the "give me attention" part definitely fits ember. she always once attention. hopefully the two of them will be able to be, maybe not friends, but something close to it. if stella would quit flinching away and suddenly taking off, there probably wouldn't be any issues between her and the cats. that's what normally sets them off.  i'm careful with treats. they normally only get two when they get brushed and then some when i do training sessions, but i've been slacking off on that. i have to watch what ember gets of human food though. she usually only gets a few tiny bites.  it's funny to watch her hunting from the ground when it's on the bed. she'll stand up and i can see her wide eyes peering over the edge of the bed, trying to pinpoint the location of the toy.  something rather odd happened last night. of course, it happened when my back was turned so i didn't see it. i was getting ready to feed them and i walked past ash to get a can of wet cat food from the pantry. before i could even grab a can, i heard this sudden, loud hiss. i turned around to see ash with his body curled up, tail tucked close to his body, ears tilted back and ember standing with her head low. she (i'm pretty sure it was her, but it was a rather low noise) started making this sound between a meow and a growl. i stepped between them and locked her up in my room when i couldn't get her to back down. then i let her out when i had given the boys their food and fed her in the dining room right outside the kitchen. she looked over at ash several times and he looked over at her a couple of times, but that was the end of it. i supervised most of it, but i left for a moment and when i went back ash had walked away. that had been the part i was most worried about since he had to walk by her, but she was just eating her food so it seemed like it was all back to normal.  however, this has been our worst incident in a while. it didn't end in a fight, but i'm pretty sure it would have if i hadn't intervened. ember did not want to let him out of her sight and i could only get her to walk to the hall before i had to pick her up and carry her to prevent her from going back. i'm at a loss as to who hissed too. from what i saw, it seemed like it would have been ember, but everything she does just seems so quiet and small that it's hard to imagine her making such a loud noise. it also seems like she makes spitting sounds more that hissing. ash hisses more often.  
 you are a wonderful parent to them.   given time i think they will probably get closer. it always depends on the personalities but ember is doing her part. stella just needs to build more trust. you are right, the fast movements can be unsettling. but the more she realizes that the cats don't mean anything she will be more trusting and get use to the movements.  very good, the treats can be high in calories. i have to watch mine with human food as well.   they love to sneak up on their prey, it really is cute whether around a corner, or up on something. good hunters.  it is good that they are getting over it quickly but i would like to see that they no longer feel the need to do that. they still seem to be testing each other or working things out. does it mostly happen right before feeding? is it usually in about the same place? there could be a food competition going on. or just a negative association in that area. at least it is not escalating into a fight. if at all possible i would like to get to the point where ember doesn't need to be locked away. i am concerned that she may take it negatively and it could lead to continued negative associations with ash. i don't think it is an issue yet especially because she was eating while he walked by after it happened but i do think we need to watch it.  just be careful picking her up when she is in that mode. cats can redirect some aggression and i don't want you to get hurt. i would prefer you to use a pillow or a piece of cardboard or something to block the site and distract.  it does bother me that she seemed to be more focused on him this time. and the body language. keep working on them so that when they are together they are getting along, no incidents, etc. the more they are together and nothing happens the more they will trust each other. if they start focusing on each other try to distract.  i just wonder if it is food related in that area that they get more "amped up". you may want to consider putting the cans out a bit early and having them more accessible so that when you feed it is a quicker process and they aren't around for as long and more likely to get "into it".  
 sabien,  i am so sorry about your loss. it is never easy but i hope you know that from my perspective you did an amazing job for both of them. it sounds like they both had long, happy and healthy lives. without you i am sure their lives would not have been anywhere near as good as they ended up having. i know there is nothing i can say to ease the pain but thank you so much for loving and taking care of your two cats as well as you did. it sounds like you did your best (and it was terrific) and i hope you never have doubts. please look back with pride. when i hear your story i am very proud and appreciative of what you did for both of them.  thank you very much for your post, it helps remind us to think as to what is best for all involved. i remain optimistic because of the positive changes so far and the knowledge and desire of animalfreak. i promise to keep your question in mind and i know animalfreak will do what is best as her love for ember, ash, frost and stella is extraordinary. i have total trust.  please always feel free to join in as an extra set of eyes is always helpful. thank you so much for your thoughts and your best wishes.  
 that's what i'm hoping for. i hope they'll all live together happily someday. i don't expect them to be best friends, but i think frost and stella could be something close it as they already get along and ember has gotten so much better. i don't think ash will ever particularly like the dog, but he's come to tolerate her.  i would definitely like to see ember relax a bit more. she's a very jumpy cat in general and she gets startled easily. when the issues were at their worst, it was mostly right before eating and in the middle of the night. after we got through that, it pretty came to an end with only a few small things here and there, but now it seems like it's starting to pick up again. so far, it's not really specifically during feeding time, but it's happening then more often. i guess i should start playing with them in the kitchen again since i started to slack off. i wasn't worried about it since there weren't any issues, but i guess i should keep it up to prevent any problems. i'm trying to keep a closer eye on them during feeding times, but i'm also trying to stay calm and not tense up. if i think they might be near each other, i'll glance over to make sure they aren't about to start anything. we haven't had any issues today other than frost hissed at ember which i didn't actually see, but i heard. that was the first in a little while now.  i know. i probably have too much faith in ember, but she has literally never intentionally put a claw on me. i've held her while letting her look down at ash and, no matter how tense she is, she will not get even close to breaking skin. she will put claws in my clothes, but she's very good about not piercing skin.  i'll go back to working with them in the kitchen and together in general. starting to get ready to feed them early might be a good idea too. i'll figure out a time for the training sessions too. i stopped that when i started school again because i had to refigure my routine and i've been trying to get ember to lose weight on top of that.   @sabian, i appreciate your input and understand your point, but believe me when i say i've had all of these thoughts before. when the situation was at it's worst, i became extremely worried that i'd have to rehome someone, but how do you even go about picking who stays and who goes? the boys have been here for six years, but i don't think ember could handle such a big change. she's a sensitive cat which is why we have these issues. i'll be the first to admit she'd probably be better off alone, but the move alone could be traumatizing for her. i'd stress myself out wondering if she's getting the attention and care she deserves too.  we're also going to be moving. the trip there is a terrifying idea since we're leaving the state, but i think it'll be for the best for all of us. we'll get them a bigger house so they can have more personal space and i think that'll help. our house is fairly small and it's not the kind of house i expected to have three cats and a hyper dog in, but i didn't really expect to have a dog and she probably did some damage to the peace as well. especially since ash would go after the dog and then ember would go after ash. she doesn't like others being aggressive.  the issues did not start right off the bat either. we've have three cats for over three years and the majority of the issues have happened in the past year or so. so we actually managed about two years with three cats and rather few issues.  again, i do appreciate your concern and your input is valued, but i think i'm going to have to keep trying with them. our situation may always be precarious, but i'm willing to work with it if it means they live together happily. really, they all get along more often than they don't though it may not seem like it reading this thread. ember and ash will lay next to each other on the top of the cat stand, sometimes even on top of each other. they'll play on occasion and their relationship is fairly good despite the issues. ember uses him for warmth in the winter and he tolerates it. i took them on as my responsibility. they --ember especially-- wouldn't be here, in this situation, if it wasn't for me. now i have to work on giving them the best lives i can.  
 has the recent increase in incidents coincided with you going back to school? and do you think you may be more stressed recently?  let's try to get them their food quicker during feeding time so there is less anticipation and less time for them to start something and just reassure them by saying "it's ok" or something that might give them confidence and keep them at ease. let's see if that helps. my ferals get into it when they are waiting for their food sometimes (like this morning) so i wonder if shortening the wait might be helpful. and the more incident free feeding time is it should help them be more calm going forward.   just try to make any encounter they have as positive as possible even if it is for a short time. and keep trying to associate them with good things.  it is great that you have faith in her and you trust her and that is why she has faith in you and trusts you. it is tricky because when they are in a real fight they get "blind" almost and something bad can happen (though it isn't intentional). for what it is worth, i need to remember my advice at times as well.  i had a hiss last night between two cats that totally love each other. i have no idea what happened but the one told the other one to "knock it off" what ever it was. then it was back to normal.   don't worry, there are always ups and downs but i think you have made good progress and am confident you will continue. you know what you are doing and you have the desire to improve it. i have a feeling frost, ash, ember and stella think they have a great life. i am not worried.  
 i'm not entirely sure. i am very bad at keeping track of time. i think it started a bit after starting school, bit it could have taken time for my own stress to build. i'm typically more relaxed at home once i get away from school, but i could definitely have more stress on me due to school stuff. i'm also wondering if it might have something to die with their lack of play. they finally started playing again last night though not much. we had a small incident during feeding time, but nothing severe and they were back to normal within moments. maybe it's my stress and their lack of play. maybe my stress caused their lack of play.  i'll work on feeding them quicker. one thing that adds to the time it takes to make their food is giving ash his medicine. there's not much i can do about that, but it does increase how long it takes.  i guess when i jump in the middle of a cat fight and get torn up i'll learn my lesson. maybe. i have learned that i am very good at jumping into cat fights. i figured that out with embers mom who always went after frost. fortunately, i was usually able to jump in before it went past chasing only ever got minor injuries.  i'm glad we don't have as many problems as we used to. ember seems a lot more secure than she was. i would like to see her a little less jumpy, but, really, they all are. no clue why. i barely move my hand and they'll jump.  
 it is always difficult to know exactly. we can have stress and it can get picked up on by the cats with us not even knowing we are really stressed. they are very sensitive. it could be that they aren't playing as much but if they don't want to. i don't think your stress would cause them not to play.  the fact they got back to normal in moments after their "encounter" that is a positive.   yes, it is hard with ash. maybe get ember her food then fix ash's? or would ash take that hard?  i do the same and get admonished for it as well. i always try to remember to be careful.  yes, i think you have made great progress. i am really happy how ember has been acting. as they get more confident and build trust they will become less jumpy. we just have to keep working on building that confidence and trust. i have all former ferals, they all grew up on the street so they were jumpy, some of them for a while after coming in. keep using food and making the encounters as positive as possible.  we'll get there. i really believe that.  
 sometimes they seem to be a little more difficult when i'm tired so it wouldn't have really surprised me if my stress affected their play. of course, i don't know for sure, but it feels like it's easier to get them to play when i'm enjoying it as well which i usually do once i get them going a bit. who knows with them though.  i was happy with how quickly they got over it. there weren't many signs anything happened at all, really. the only reason i knew it happened was because there was a small, but irregular noise and ash had been walking behind me so he ended up pressed against my legs so i looked back to see him kind of hunched over and her giving him the stink eye.  honestly, that might not be a bad option. they're all usually pretty good about going to their own spots. they know where they get fed and i do it in the same order every night so i don't think it would take too long for them to get over it. i only worry about those occasions where they all decide they want someone else's food. however, we didn't have any issues tonight. not even close calls. there didn't seemed to be any tension whatsoever so i think i'll leave it be for now and see how it goes. i've been getting everything out earlier though i need to do it even earlier so they don't have food on the mind when i'm trying to play with them. if it doesn't seem to help i'll try feeding ember first. maybe i could get their food ready at the same time, feed the other two, and then put ash's medicine in and feed him. that way he doesn't have to wait too long, but the others can get it a bit quicker.  ember really has come a long way. one random sign of that is that she no longer takes off when i shake a bag. sometimes i have to get in the pantry to find a bag to clean out litter boxes with and i have to make sure there aren't any holes in it. i used to have to be really careful because if i made too much noise she'd take off running. i did it recently while they were eating and she only glanced over before going back to her food. it's such a small thing, but i was really happy that she didn't feel the need to run off.  
 i notice it with myself as well. they can feed off the energy we have.  it is great that there isn't any lasting impact. that really is the key tell. now, we would love for it to not happen at all but things happen.   that is great there were no incidents last night. just use your judgement and see what works best. i always try to distract the cat that is most likely to cause issue first so that they are occupied eating then work on he ones that are more patient. then i distract the one or ones that finish first. trying to make the event as positive and non-eventful as possible. i know you will do what is best.  that is great about ember. that is a sign of increased trust and confidence. a great sign. it really is things like that that help us assess where a cat is. i am proud of what you have done with ember.  
 just keep trying. sometimes they tire of the toy or they get a bit lazy etc. my ferals were watching a squirrel eat their hard food yesterday. if a feral doesn't want to play with a real life squirrel.................... it happens.  keep up the great work. it is great to hear they are calm. the more days like that the more trust they will have. there are always ups and downs but you are doing things that are helping them. great work.  i am really proud of you and ember. you are helping her be more confident. the human is so important in the process.  keep up the great work. they'll play when they want to, in the meantime just keep associating them with good things and making the interactions as positive as possible.  
 it was an exhausting trip for sure. i think we got lost four or five times in two days.  everything is still going well. i ordered a new laser light and one of those da bird toys so hopefully that'll be here soon.  it's always great to have them around. ember has been laying on me a lot. maybe she's making up for not saying hello to me when i got home.     belcocat said: ↑  that's how my cat is playing... click to expand...  that's fantastic! i'd love to get my cats to play with anything at this point.   
 it was definitely not a relaxing vacation, though it was an interesting one.  their toys came in today. the wand toy came with three pieces to alternate between. i thought there were two. i'm tempted to keep one just because it's so soft. the laser light is rather large and heavy and came in its own case. fanciest laser light i've ever seen. hopefully it'll be harder to lose. and it has a switch so i don't have to hold a button down. it's very bright too. you can see it clearly in the kitchen from the living room with the light on. ember and stella love it.  there was some slapping last night while i was making dinner but i just said something and they split up. after that it was like nothing ever happened.  
  at least it was interesting. hopefully next time it will be more relaxing.  very cool. let's hope they don't hide this laser!! it is great that ember and stella love it.  slapping happens but i am so glad they stopped it and then resumed to normal behavior. that is great and a very positive sign.  keep up the great work!!  
 i would contact the seller or the company that makes it and make sure it is working like it is supposed to. i am not sure which toy you have but it should be pretty good. the retractables usually work pretty well since it tends to replicate the movement a bit smoother. try the different attachments as some cats like some more than others.  a swat back and forth happens. as long as that is all it is and they act normal after it is fine. you should see my two male ferals. they will be swatting each other, getting rough (not play more competitive), while i am getting the food ready then they will walk with me with their tails intertwined rubbing on each other before eating together.  as long as frost and ash didn't escalate the issue i am not worried. i think you are right, ash's space was invaded, he let frost know and frost was like "okay". they worked it out.  cats often will swat when another animal runs by as they want to play so i am not worried about what ember did to stella (especially because stella was not hurt which ember didn't want to hurt her anyway most likely).  you have done an amazing job with ember and all the others. i love to hear that ember and stella like to play together. that they have a bond. it isn't easy to get a cat and a more active dog together and you did. fantastic. i love that ember barely flinches when stella runs by or around. that is trust, that is what our goal is, to be that trust and confidence. really great job.  great post to charlene. really well said, great information and advice.  
 i would have thought she would too. absolutely no interest. the only way i could get her attention was dangling it in front of her. eventually she jumped for it a couple of times, but that was it. same with ash. in the last ten minutes, i got some interest from him but not much. ember really likes the laser light though. i just wish i could get her to catch something. ash has been playing with the laser light quite a bit though. it's been a while since i've seen him do more than run in a straight line for it once or twice a session. right now i'm doing a session with the laser twice before doing a session with a toy. so it's the light and then throw a toy for the dog. then the light and the toy for the cats.  all has been well otherwise. we got them some different food that they don't care for though. it's not a different brand. just made for different things. honestly, i have no clue what we should focus on with food. there's so many different kinds for different things and there's so many issues among the three cats what with utis, arthritis, hairballs, weight problems... i'd like to be able to afford one those great, really expensive cat foods that's all real meat and whatnot.  i did see ash lurch away from ember today while i was making their meals, but i didn't actually see her do anything so i don't know if she did do something or if he just flinched because he thought she was going to. either way, nothing came of it. they went right back to normal.  
 some cats like different things. but i am glad that they love the laser. as long as they enjoy the play and respond to it then not being able to catch it is not hurting them. so i wouldn't worry. i love that ash is playing with it too.   it sounds like you have a great plan for the play sessions. well done!!  just change their food slowly. you may want to post in the other section for food ideas. a lot of people have a lot of experience in the types of foods and they probably can help give you some great ideas. i know it is hard to figure out what is best.  things can always happen but i am so glad nothing came of it today. that they reverted back to normal. that is really the key, that they learned how to get along and what the intent of the other cat is. good sign.  keep up the great work!!  
 i'm happy they're all finally getting into playing. it can be difficult to get all three interested. heck, getting one can be difficult depending on their mood.  ash has definitely gotten sweeter as he's aged though i think he really likes the smell of my deodorant too. he acts like ember on catnip. it's funny, but kind of weird too. his obsession with dryer sheets is a bit concerning though. he doesn't eat them or anything, but he will bite them. i always feel bad taking them away too because he loves them so much, but i don't want him getting hurt by it.  ember has been on my lap on and off since i got home. i had to leave though so i'm not with them right now and tomorrow night i'm going camping, but i'll be back sunday.  i have to advantage of being a pretty deep sleeper. i wake up when i need to and i have trouble sleeping at night, but i don't wake up when ember slams my bedroom door open. so i'm actually okay with the noise they make unless they do it before i fall asleep or when i wake up in the middle of the night. however, they are a bit snugglier in the winter. frost will lay in my bed and groom himself which i can hear from across the room. ember likes to lay on my ankles, but i move too much so she usually leaves after a little while. i do enjoy having her company though. no matter how hard she makes things at times, i wouldn't trade her for the world.  
 so sorry about my absence. as you know, i went camping saturday night. i was at my dad's for a good portion of sunday and thought it would be best if i responded after getting home and going through my routine with the animals so i'd actually have an update, but got busy trying to get unpacked and ready for the next day and, thus, ran out of time. the next day i simply forgot and yesterday i typed up a response on my tablet, but some error occurred and wanted me to refresh, but then my response was gone. i don't really like typing on my tablet all that much as it is and i definitely didn't feel like doing it twice.  everything has, overall, been quite good though. there was an incident the first night i got home. i can't remember it well anymore though. it wasn't as minor as many of incidents have been, but it didn't last either. there hasn't been any other issues to worry about. ash did slap at stella once when i was feeding her, but it was a slow and hesitant slap that barely fazed even her. i told him that that was rude and if anyone should get out of the kitchen it was him because it was her dinner time. of course, he didn't care, but he didn't have any issues afterward.  ember and ash have been having tons of fun with the laser light. they've been playing a lot more lately. frost is the only one i have trouble with. he won't even so much as look at the laser light and he only occasionally plays with the wand toy, but never for long. admittedly, i'm not extremely worried about him. of course, it would be great if he would play, but he's far from overweight, plays with the others, and typically comes off as a very confident cat. i'd rather not stress myself out over an otherwise perfectly healthy cat.  well, maybe not perfectly. i found a bump on the side of his neck and, upon closer observation, we realized it was a half peeled scab. we can only guess that he scratched a little too much. it was very concerning to me, but it always is when it comes to them. but he was a very good boy letting us look and barely fought at all. i gave him some petting afterwards.  i do have a bond with ember. that much is undeniable and i'm not so naïve as to take it for granted. she means a lot to me. she doesn't need a pedigree to be special and she doesn't require a set temperament to be a sweetie. don't get me wrong, i do love the boys and i wouldn't change them for the world. if we could change cats to be exactly as we want then they wouldn't be their own selves. they wouldn't be the individuals that we love, but ember is the first i've had a real bond with. she's been worth every struggle, every stressful moment. all of the times that she's prevented me from getting my work done or kept me from sleeping is worth every time she greets me at the door when i come home or lays on my lap and purrs like she wouldn't want to be anywhere else.  
 i can totally understand your feelings and worry about him. you are doing your best. that is all anyone can do. as long as you are watching him and trying to get him as much water as possible it is good. i am glad he is drinking all the water you give him in his food. i am glad to hear that it is getting easier to handle the stress as time goes on. vets or vet techs etc at the clinic you take them to usually are willing to answer questions so please don't be afraid to call them and let them know the situation. then they can help you understand the situation better.  stress and crazy weather can cause illness. just try your best not to stress, try to get enough rest and eat as well as possible.  i am so glad none of the issues are too serious. as long as they aren't fighting and going back to normal fairly quickly after an incident then all is well. we still have to work to build their confidence and make every interaction as positive as possible but it is very manageable. my two feral boys have been acting up. fighting before meal time then they eat together. i am trying to make sure it doesn't escalate. maybe it is the time of the year, the weather etc. but as long as they don't carry on and act differently i am not too worried.  i know what you mean. it can be a number of things. that is the problem, cats can't just tell us. it could be general stress, it could be stress from other cats (inside or intact ferals), it could be discomfort or health. i always watch how they act, how they eat, how they use the litter box. i look for anything different. avoiding areas, walking differently, etc. he isn't aggressive really, is he? more grumpy? just let's keep an eye on him and try to be your loving self to him. maybe we will see a sign of something or maybe it is just the time of the year and it will past. it really is being like a detective looking for clues all the time.  i understand about ember. yes, we don't want issues from being overweight happening down the road. i am sure there are many people on here with good insight so when you have time a new thread dedicated to that topic should be helpful. i would just say keep trying to get her to be as active as possible and watch her food intake.   poor ash. i am just not an expert on hairballs etc. any time there is something different i always monitor. always feel free to contact your vet. just to get an expert opinion. and always monitor when something is different just to catch any issue early.   you are doing great with them, please do not be too hard on yourself. you really are doing well for them and just keep doing your best and loving them like you do.  and get well soon!!   
 i hope he is okay. i'm going to watch him until i see him peeing normally or i know he isn't and needs to get to a vet. i feel bad that he's gone through so much. i mean, he's only six years old and he has arthritis and has had multiple utis. on top of that, there's all the times he's been attacked by ember... he's been through quite a lot. speaking of his arthritis though, he's been doing much better. hardly gives me any trouble at all during brushing any more.   about the fighting during meal times, i've actually noticed something a bit odd. there have been fights, but they actually seem playful. it's kind of hard to tell since play fights look like real fights, but there hasn't been any hissing, spitting, growling, or puffed up fur. ember is always the one to start it and ash never does much in retaliation or attempts to continue it, but it always goes right back to normal afterwards and there was once that ash flopped down on his side like he was ready to play. i'm unsure mostly because they've never played before. it's always been ember and frost. that and ash does seem a little tense, often leaning away from her at first, but besides their history, nothing really makes it seem like a real fight.  no, it's not really aggressive. it's about as close as he's ever gotten to it though. he's actually eating better than he was there for a while. he tends to nibble of his food until ash is done and then goes to eat ash's food which seems a bit pointless, but he'll go right back to eating his food when i move him back. litter box habits are harder to keep track of with multiple cats and multiple litter boxes especially since i'm not here all day, but i haven't noticed anything. he's playing with a bit. really, most aspects seem to have improved, if anything.  i'll get on posting about embers weight problem as well as frost's issues. i got distracted today, but hopefully tomorrow. i need to post somethings on a dog forum about stella too. i have a lot of posting to do.  ash has always had hairball issues. sometimes he'd have several in the span of a week. it seems to have lessoned, but i was worried about it being so hard for him to get up such little fur. my mom thought he might have gotten to a plant since we had to bring them in for the winter, but normally they throw up the plant if that was the case. this was just fluid and some fur.  well, i'm trying. at times it can feel like i bit off more than i can chew with the four of them, but i'm determined to do my best for them. they don't deserve anything less.  
 yeah, i'm definitely relieved his arthritis doesn't seem to be bothering him so much. i thought we were going to have to go back to the vet just for that since it didn't seem like it was relenting. that's one thing i don't have to worry about. at least not for a while. i hope it doesn't get worse any time soon though.  it looks more like play to me. it's just their history that makes me wonder. if this was their first interaction at that time then i would automatically assume it was play. and i agree that, if this is play, it's awesome. really, it's pretty great either way. due to the fact that i'm not sure what it is, i haven't intervened and they haven't needed it. so even if it isn't play, they've been handling it on their own and getting over it swiftly.  i'm wondering if the hairballs doesn't have something to due with the fur texture, actually. i've had two cats who had issues with hairballs. ash has longer fur than the previous cat, but they both share that really thick fur. frost has fur just as long as ash, but it's silkier and smoother and he's only had one or two hairballs in his life. ember's is short and sleek and she hasn't had a single one though she eats the other two's fur so much i'm half surprised.  i'm going to get around to posting those topics today. hopefully i'll get some tips about what to do.  i love them all and i'm very proud of our progress. it does get stressful and drains at my energy and my time, but they're worth it all and i wouldn't change a thing. other than maybe my dog's sensitivity to noises. that can grate on one's nerves after so long. but she's still a great dog. just a bit overexcited.  
 yeah.  poor ash. i just hope it stays away for a while. i am sure there are posts on here about arthritis in the health area.  it seems logical to me. it could have something to do with their digestive systems or maybe how much they groom at set times etc.   great. i need to look at those threads. i totally agree a lot of great and knowledgeable people on here.  totally agree!!  yes, i know exactly what you mean. we had a little poodle that was exactly how you describe. a lot of energy. we never got her out of it but it did improve.  
 i know exactly how it is. same here.   
 i'm finally home! it's been too long (two days)! my mom said they were getting along and there was no hissing, but it was almost immediately after that that i heard frost hiss and she didn't hear it. so who knows? no fights or anything though. everything seems fine other than that one hiss though. i'm happy to be back with them.  i, personally, do actually feel a bit calmer. as much as i didn't like it, being away is probably a good thing every now and then. it's a bit of a break from all the responsibilities and wondering if everything is okay. all the problems are still there, but they're not right in front of my face. then i come back and i appreciate them even more!  i didn't really think of it at first. i mean, i knew a lot of our issues happened after, but her insecurities were a lot of our issues. however, thinking back on it, adding a cat did add a bit of tension to the household. obviously, she's not going anywhere. i'll just have to work hard to keep the tension at bay! i have to say though, with how much trouble i've had with three, i'm impressed you can handle five. hopefully i'll be able to get to the point that i can do so as well. not that i strive to have five cats, but, let's face it, i probably will. especially because i always feel bad for the older animals that get dropped off at shelters. i'd like to make sure they have somewhere to live out the rest of their lives though it would probably be best to find them a quiet, peaceful place if possible.  lol. it is true though, isn't it? if they knew they could simply talk our ears off to get what they wanted, they would totally do it. especially ember! i love that she talks to me so much, but if she used actual words i'd never hear the end of it. stella too. she'd be one of those really fast talkers that you can't understand because she doesn't even pause to breathe. of course, not everyone is the same. i could see ash being one of the ones that tries to keep everything to himself. he can come off as a brooding teenager at times.  i'll have to implement the daily training session tomorrow (here's hoping i'll actually remember) because i got home kind of late today. i did give frost two playing sessions though. the first was a ten minute one and i may or may not keep it that way at least at first. he seemed to enjoy it, but it was slightly harder to keep his attention the second play session. we'll keep it up and see if it gets easier for him.  ash isn't playing a whole lot, but he is jumping for the toy so that's good. he was being a bit mean to ember while she was playing with the laser light. he seems to have decided that he likes to sit in the way during her play time so she has to run by him to chase the light and he refuses to move even though he doesn't like her running past like that. then he ends up slapping at her, albeit not very hard. she doesn't do anything though it might make her slightly hesitant to run past him the next time around. however, today he actually ended up hissing at her. she stopped and stared at him, but she surprisingly didn't attack. i'm not sure i could even blame her if she did considering it wasn't necessary for him to do that at all and it was actually directed towards her. but it is a huge step and a massive sign that her confidence had improved a great deal. there was a time that she'd come barreling in from a different room if he hissed or growled so she could attack him. that they were standing maybe a foot or less away from each other and it was so obviously directed at her and she didn't attack is amazing. he walked a few feet away and she went up to sniff him, but that was the end of it after the initial few moments of staring before i was able to get over to them. i gave ember some attention to reassure her that she was okay and gave ash a pat after he walked back over. after that, he sat slightly less out of the way but still where he'd feel the need to slap her. a couple of times she actually hit him back, but i let it go and nothing came of it. i was happy she was standing up for herself, but not starting a full out fight.  they're definitely my best friends. even if they don't want to be, they are. i'll spend the rest of their lives trying to make sure they're happy and, once they're gone, i'll do the same for another animal that needs it.  i'm not a very social person and getting and keeping friends has always been a bit of struggle for me. i can't say i'm entirely blame free. i've always been -- even as a young child -- more of an animal person. i used to get along better with people than i do now, but animals were my preference. and, for as many people that do love and respect animals, it still seems to be the minority. that's probably one of my biggest issues. i'm pretty open minded when it comes to most things, but i refuse to associate myself with people who don't respect animal rights at least to some extent. i don't ask that people go to the same level i do, but to respect that animals have the right to live. not many people meet that requirement though. i also just don't have the motivation. i prefer sitting at home with my animals or going to the shelter to hang out with the cats there. i don't put much effort into any relationships with people. i don't text or call unless i need to and i don't really make plans. so it's not as if i can say i don't play a part in my lack of friends. it's just that i don't rely on those relationships enough to lower my standards. i've also always been a bit of a ghost. it's one of the things i really like about this site. both in real life and online, i have a tendency to be ignored. for the most part, this doesn't bother me, but it can get a bit frustrating at times, especially when i'm looking for help. but on here, i found a fantastic community that doesn't seem to skip over everything i post.  
 well, i know you will do what is best. i had to be away for a longer time and i know what you mean. it is hard.   i know the feeling. it really is a daily routine. having some structure is good and having things to do and accomplishing things is also good in a lot of ways. routines are also very good for the cats.  i know but i wonder if words can solve things. they don't always with people. i think actions are actually more powerful. but words can help direct us to the cause or source. especially medical issues but also behavioral (since we are not always around to observe).  i think you put it in a terrific way about the number of animals and limits. i think a lot of us what to save everyone. some try. then hopefully we objectively assess the situation and make the difficult choices and understand what is best. your paragraph of this is really excellent. you understand the risks and what is best in a very thorough way. i think w always have to be realistic and practical and figure out what is best for everyone. it is hard and i go through it often but i think you have a great grasp on the situation and the challenges etc. i do not worry that you will not do what is best for all the animals.  i take care of ferals as well as the indoor cats. a number of my ferals have left or gone missing etc. it is very hard to deal with. not knowing how their life is, if they are still alive, etc. i tried to find homes but it is nearly impossible. i wonder if i should have taken some in but i am maxed out. but the internal battle is very hard. but we have to do our best for everyone involved. but is is hard.  they really are unique, aren't they? each have their own personalities even when they come from the same mom. it is really cute how you describe them. they are such good cats. i have one inside (and 1 feral outside) that give my hand a head butt before eating the treat or chicken from me. the others don't. their communication (like yours) different. some louder, some quieter, some more often, etc. it is really cool.  great that ash and frost both played!! i love to hear that.   i agree the interaction wasn't that bad. sometimes cats do things like that. it is times like these it would be nice if they could tell us. some probably do it to be "the boss" and show their power. some to instigate play. etc. but we never really know. when you do "shoo him away" just try to make it as positive as possible. which i am sure you do.  we all have self doubt about things. and anyone who says they don't actually probably have more self doubt than others. no one is perfect. you are who you are so you should just be yourself whether online or in person. you should be proud of yourself. if someone doesn't "get you" then they aren't worthy. you are obviously intelligent, kind, thoughtful, sincere. people wish they had friends like that. just be yourself. not everyone is worthy of being your friend but whoever is will be lucky. knowing what i know about you i think you have a place anywhere you like, big town, small town. great people are rare in this world. there are a lot of people that would really enjoy your friendship, just make sure they are worthy of it. not everyone is.  you are welcome. everyone always needs a confidence boost every once in a while. everything i write i write because i believe it. i only tell the truth. often times the most confident looking people are not the most confident. braggarts typically have the greatest insecurities. humility is a sign of understanding, wisdom. it is a great trait. i mentioned some traits of yours before. i should add humility. humility is a great trait that will lead you far in life. people like people like that. and you have the intelligence, the kindness, the work ethic, etc that are great traits. knowing our weaknesses allows us to better ourselves. that is a positive trait. to try to be a better person. you have the ability to make animals lives better and you have the ability to do much more in life if you are willing to put the effort in. i hope you can take a step back and see all your great qualities. i can see them, i hope you can.   i agree the site is wonderful. that is wonderful that it has helped you with your anxiety.  i think sometimes you are too critical of yourself. too hard on yourself. i love that you look at yourself and see how you can do better etc but i would love to see you balance it. you said how some "rude, arrogant people immediately criticize everything" on other sites. having the balance to recognize when they (the rude arrogant people) are the problem is important. so it is not always you at fault, it can be the other people. people in this world have issues and often take it out on others rather than fixing it themselves. and people feel emboldened being nasty online. it is easier to criticize others than improve themselves as people. you are not like them. it is because you are a great person that you look at yourself, at ways to improve etc. so you should never feel afraid to post something. always be open to constructive criticism because no one knows everything and always remain humble but don't let people with problems get to you. i hope i kind of explained it well. the key is to think things through when posting, give the best post you can, and then be open to where you are right or wrong. and keep learning. which is how i view you. you are obviously intelligent and you have really good critical thinking and an openness and desire to continue learning and getting better. those are terrific traits that once again will lead to success in whatever you choose to do in the future.  i hope you don't mind what i wrote. i just want you to see how another person sees you. you should be very proud of the person you are.  
 totally agree. it really is cute how they communicate.   i know you will. the fact you are cognizant of all the issues tells me you will make the best decisions. i admire you for helping at the shelter. i know how hard it is to see cats waiting to find a home. all you can do is help socialize them so they have a better chance.  that is great analysis. i think you are exactly right. i always accept each cat for what they are. some are more social, some aren't. some more loving. i honestly have never met a cat i didn't like. they are unique. i had a feral that would hiss at me every feeding time. huge scary hiss. then i would hand feed her her chicken and she was so gentle. never once hurt me or tried to. each cat is special. sometimes people take it personally. i have always believed it is about the cats and not me.  it happens sometimes. i too have days where they all refuse to play. other days were some wont. etc. i never found a reason. it just happens. i have one like frost, loves to play while laying on his back. silly.  i get that as well. last night my one cat went into the basket with a male. they love each other. he gave a big hiss and jumped out. i was like "where did that come from?". who knows if she stepped on him or just startled him. but they worked it out and no further incident. sometimes a look or the body language can trigger a hiss or a slap (i have seen it many times). but as long as it passes i don't worry. it is like when a person gets snappy to a loved one. we don't mean to be nasty but sometimes we are not meaning anything by it. just keep an eye on them and see if there is anything you can see causing it. my ferals have been fighting before i give them their dinner lately. then they eat together. go figure. ember could be protecting you as well. just letting ash know that you are important to her.  it is interesting because you write with confidence on here. so you have the confidence. i think deep down you know you are intelligent, etc. just trust yourself. you obviously know things, you write well (so i guess you probably speak well), your thinking is logical, you are well thought out, etc. just be yourself and trust yourself. you are a great person and the confidence is there (i see it when i read your posts). so it is not far away. and if others think you have made progress than we can't all be wrong. you obviously have done a great job with the cats and they take on our emotions so you may not realize it but i think there are a lot of signs that your confidence is greater than you think.  a lot of us have more fear about doing than the actual action of doing. anticipation is always the worst. for me it is the dentist. i worry and worry then i go and it isn't so bad. or going on a first date. everyone always worries whether they show it or not. you are no different than anyone else. i think sometimes we think we are different but in reality we really aren't. we all have fears and insecurities etc. once we accept that it makes it easier to move forward. i know you will be just fine.  things just happen and great things tend to just happen. so just be yourself and let things happen. i too am more quiet but have a very outlandish friend. if someone asked me what my ideal friend would be like i would not have described her but it happened. others it didn't work. i think it is good you aren't forcing anything and just letting things happen. just keep doing what makes you happiest and what you think is best and it will all work out.  i think you are a great person. we all have negative traits, i sure do. i can be selfish at times. but as long as we try to keep improving then i think it is ok. i realize i am selfish at times and try not to be. but i still am. it remains a work in progress but the fact i am trying is good. some things aren't as important than others. what i have found about you is that you are intelligent, you care about others (animals or people), you want to improve things, you have a great heart, you are kind, respectful, well spoken (or written). a lot of what i have seen are the most important traits. so i hope you aren't too hard on yourself going forward. the fact you are hard on yourself tells me you want what is best for others. (which is a great trait) but i think you blame yourself for things you don't have control over. so remembering to only focus on things that can be changed is a better use of energy. the fact you are aware of your anxiety and focusing on trying to improve it means you are moving forward and ahead of many others with similar problems. if there is anyone that can deal with it i know you can!! one day you are going to look back and be really impressed by what you overcame. i am really confident you can do it.  wow, your last paragraph is so meaningful to me. i am here to improve the lives of cats but your sincerity is really wonderful to read. it makes me feel really good that maybe i did help in a small way. i wish i could give more advice in getting the cats to play or get along. you are the one that really made them improve, i gave some suggestions but you implemented them. you deserve the credit because without your effort they would not be where they are today. i am happy to help in anyway i can.  i am always here for you so feel free to post anytime. happy to help. you really have done a great job with them. i hope you are as proud of yourself as i am of you!  
 oh, it was fine. nothing major. i got my flu shot and we're trying to figure out why my jaw locks up sometimes, so i got some blood work done. it took a few tries to get the blood because my veins are apparently very small. it all came up fine though.  i'd there every day if i could. i really enjoy spending time with the animals even though i know i have my own to take care of. i'm excited to be able to go back. they were under quarantine for a while because ringworm was going around, so it's been a while since i've been there other than for a fundraising during which they had all the cats in cages.  my mistakes are things that i'll live with for the rest of my life. i'll be making up for them for that entire time. i would have done it even without those mistakes, but they give me even more motivation to ensure that i do right by the animals. i'll probably always assume i did something wrong when an animal lashes out at me. well, an animal i'm at least somewhat familiar with. i understand a feral is likely to lash out. like a cat i might at the shelter, though. i decided i was going to give him attention every time i went because he was an older, kind of raggedy cat, but calm and sweet. he would lay on my lap and purr and i thought we had an at least decent relationship. one day, i was sitting on the floor with him next to me and another cat got on my lap. he all of a sudden jerked away and lashed out, scratching me. it was minor, but i got a bit emotional over it. not that i held it against him, but i didn't understand what happened. i still feel bad because that was the last time i saw him. not because i avoided him, but we didn't have time and the weather was bad. the next time i went, he was gone. i'm glad he's not stuck at the shelter anymore, but i wish i was able to see him one more time.  i almost got frost to play today. the key word in that sentence is almost. i managed to get his attention for approximately ten seconds. then he was gone. ash didn't play. ember did though she stop a little early.  i'm learning. i'll probably continue to learn for a long time. i had gotten used to a peaceful household with relatively little work. i can still have a peaceful household; i just have to put a little more effort into it. that's okay. sometimes i need to be able to step away from the situation and gather my wits, but i have to believe that i can handle it. i always figure the day i fear getting bit is the day i get bit. it's the same with most everything. the day i think i can't handle it is the day i won't be able to handle it. i've come close in the past, but i haven't given up yet. now that i know i truly can manage, i don't intend on giving up for a long time.  i hope i do. i'm probably not going to be able to manage everything i want to do if i don't get over my anxiety which is my main motivation in getting over it. it's an obstacle i'll have to overcome before i try to help the animals. if i'm going to run a shelter, i can't be afraid constantly and doubt my every decision. i do intend on practicing my speech skills. i'm not a very social person so i supposed it isn't so odd that i can't talk very well. the difference between me speaking and me writing is quite vast. it's things i have to work on. that and being myself are two i struggle with. not that i really change who i am, but i tend to hold back. i was talking to a baby bearded dragon in petsmart today so that was kind of me practicing speaking and me being myself. he/she was staring at me quite intensely. of course, i went back later and he/she was standing in the exact same position so maybe he/she just likes taking naps with his/her head tipped back.  well, you have yet to give me a reason to think you're anything but a good person. you're definitely right about it being the effort that counts. none of us can ever be perfect, but what would we be if we didn't try? maybe not try to be perfect in every way, but at least some. i'll admit that i don't particularly care to be the most optimistic person or the kindest towards every person i meet, but i want to do good. i want to help. i try to be open-minded and patient though i'm slacking with the latter.  maybe i could be a leader if i didn't have anxiety, but i'm far from it with it. however, i do know when not to be a follower. i'm not going to endanger myself or others for the sake of following someone. i refuse to let go of my beliefs. those are what i fight for. not religious beliefs or anything, but the beliefs that animals have rights, that they deserve respect, and that they aren't inferior to humans. i can't let go of those. i don't want to. i think it's those beliefs that often keep me on the path i'm on. they're the reason i can't be a follower.  you know, i agree with you on a lot, but i think i'm going to have to disagree this time. i love my cats and i do what i need to to keep them happy, but i wouldn't have known how to do that if you hadn't helped me. maybe i could have found the information elsewhere, but i didn't. i found it here, through you. i knew play was important, but i hadn't realized just how important it was and i don't think i could have learned that any other way. all of my issues seem to have been so much easier to handle since you offered your help.  
 i have two kittens, a male and a female. they were born outside but taken in when they were around a month old, but i could definitely see the feral in the female. she was always very suspicious and independent, and although she trusts me now (but on her own terms), she's kinda "weird" that way. they carry it in them, a lot of them, depending on the mom. i can't explain the scientific side of it, but i know that e.g. breeders don't breed females with difficult tempers. i believe you when you say your kittie isn't aggressive--i think maybe the fact that she's female + they're three in the same living space + she came after the boys might be a little harder on her.   
 my guess is they are trying to make sure everything is handled and cleaned so that the risk of anything causing problems is limited. trying to contain a situation before it spreads is really important. it is hard to handle sadly but important.  the fact you are cognizant of what you want and the pitfalls etc tells me you are going to do fine. you are intelligent and your heart is in the right place. i am confident.  it is really great to stay open minded and stay on facts while watching out for assuming things. it is easy to assume something and go down that path and realize that the assumption was incorrect. very easy to do. vets do it, people do it. but being aware of the risk puts a person ahead of the situation. yeah, it is a hard situation. i know i will encounter it again and i hope i do better next time. yes play fights can sound really bad.  just do your best. at least ember is playing. even one piece of the puzzle can improve the whole thing.  that is a great attitude. humility is very good and helps in making their lives better. if you keep up that attitude i guarantee you will make animals lives better.  the fact you recognize that and want to improve the skills base is a great step toward achieving your goals. i think you will be amazed how far you can go. if you keep working on the things you want to improve you will succeed. you attitude with regard to that is actually a big reason why i am so confident. writing and teh thought process behind it are a great base to lead to good speaking. you can do it.  you are exactly right about doubt. a little is good too much bad. the fact you are aware is incredibly important to balancing that. you will push past this. i know you can and i know you will.  wow, that is really cool. i always thought that you can tell a lot about a person about how they interact with people or animals. animals are really cool. they tend to bring out good things in people.  honesty is very important. there is a balance but we have to weigh what is best. some situations are hard but if we can be sincere, tell the truth and try to help then it should ultimately work out.   you are right, i am so glad ember is with you and happy. they really are so important in our lives as we are in theirs.  i am not an expert on not covering sadly. it is possible it could be nothing, it could be a little territorial. the fact someone is still using the litter box probably rules out medical though there could be a little discomfort? are the sizes or consistency different at all? how long has it been going on?  wow, those are 2 great encounters!! that is what we wanted to achieve!! awesome!! and beyond cute!! you are obviously doing things right!! great work!!  
 i hope so. it is very hard but i am sure they are doing what is best. really important to contain the situation. once something spreads it really gets difficult.  i wish them the best luck.  it is very hard. i battle assuming all the time as going down a certain path. staying open to facts is really important. as long as we are cognizant of the dangers then hopefully we can avoid doing it more often.   it is great ember is playing. i wonder why ash isn't. bored maybe? frost is funny. that sounds like something he would do.  you will get there!!  nothing worth it is ever easy.  animals are better than people. the way people treat animals or people "below" them tells a lot about the character of that person. it is always best to associate yourself with good, honest, well intentioned, sincere people.  i get a sense ember likes the other animals more than you think. i think she is in the best place possible. the bond you have with her and vice versa is so special.  as long it is normal i wouldn't worry. just keep monitoring. yes eating too fast will do that. it is very tough to get them not to each the others food. i haven't figured it out.  they always like what the other has. so common. mine, my ferals, all of them. hahahahaha  it really is. makes it all worth it!! hahahaha, yeah, they like to do that.  
 we went and volunteered last night. my mom wanted to take care of the cats, but someone else had already done that when we got there so we helped out with the dogs. it was a lot of fun. we took a few for walks, gave them fresh water, and prepared their food. i was also allowed to put treats in some toys and give them out. i really enjoyed it, even when one of the dogs banged the door into my head. twice. and then i proceeded to hit my head on the lock. i did find out that the fourth room that was still locked up was under quarantine until today. they're site is also pretty much up-to-date now so i'm hoping that means things are calming down and the cats will be allowed to roam again. i noticed that they have a feral cat though. he seems calmer than i would have expected, but he doesn't seem to move much. i don't know what they're going to do with him. i don't think they're equipped to handle a feral and have no clue how they ended up with him.  it's a fight we'll probably always battle and one we'll sometimes lose, but i'll keep fighting it. if i don't, i'll be a hypocrite and i'd rather not be that.  i've no idea with those two. ash is back and forth a lot. maybe he needs a new toy, but i play with two different ones every day. you'd think one of them would be good enough for him, but oh no. they're going to break me with this not wanting to play with a toy for more than a week or two. they are getting new toys for christmas, but i don't think i can afford anymore before then. well, i could, but i have a fear of spending money and i'm looking forward to including them in our tradition. my mom is doing so too which means they should have plenty of toys once christmas comes.  i agree. people think they're smarter, but the only difference is that they're more complex. in some ways, i think animals have it better since they aren't worried about being something they're not and they don't go around lying. many of them just want to live. people have to fight those battles and many don't come out on top. of course, some do and those are the people i'd like to associate myself with.  i don't think ember has anything against the other animals, but she kind of comes off as one of those cats that would rather have the spotlight on her 24/7. she gets along with them for the most part, but she gains rather little from having them around. they play together every now and then, but not often. ash is good for body heat, i guess. she's not going anywhere though. i'd be miserable without her if i did have to give her up which, unfortunately, is something i've had to consider. not for my own good, but for hers and the other two's. she has a home with us though so she's stuck with me and the dog and the other cats.   i will keep an eye out. of course, i have yet to see it happen again. i won't stress over it since it seemed normal otherwise. they are a bunch of brats when it comes to food. frost had a tendency to nibble on his own food until ash is done. then he goes over and finishes off ash's food while his own bowl is still half full. ember at least finishes hers before she goes to the next bowl.  oh yes, my mom and i are kind of, sort of, taking care of a feral. i'm not sure how much we're actually going to do, but we made a place for the cat out of a storage bin. it's not the best, but it's better than nothing. it's lined with some carpeting that was left over though i'll buy some styrofoam if i can find any and there's a pad on the bottom that's supposed to retain heat. we got it for the dog, but she didn't like it. we're trying to see if anyone has any straw we can use. we're also trying to find a tnr organization, but so far i've only been able to find two: one charges you to use a cage and you have to catch the cat, and the other didn't mention prices or if you have to catch the cat. we might be able to trap the cat, but we can't really afford to pay anything, especially since there's no guarantee we'll catch the right cat the first try. we were also debating on putting food out to lure the cat in. the only problem is that both of us feel like we're obligated to continue feedings if we do, but we have four animals to feed as it is as well as ourselves. i'm also wary of doing anything to encourage other cats to stay in this area. we're only doing this because my mom has seen this cat multiple times. we're pretty much surrounded by roads and the busiest road in town is right behind us. of course, that's not saying much because it's a tiny town and the speed limit is 30 mph, and i have yet to see a cat run over, but i'd rather limit the amount of cats here. of course, there's our indoor cats too. part of the reason we want to tnr is to prevent spraying around the house. the cats don't seem to have a problem with us smelling like other cats, but i'm afraid a cat spraying will be different, especially for ember.  
 that is great. it sounds like it was a lot of fun. some dogs do get a little wild with treats. i know i have had a few in my life!!   that is good that they think they are through the issue. it is smart that they are taking their time. it is better to be cautious then have a recurring issue.  ferals can be very still. i deal with ferals all the time. he probably is very frightened.  ferals are like any cat. i take in older ferals, with effort and love i have gotten them to be great cats. it is all about trust. never stand over or approach from above a feral. never stare at them. act normally (calm and confidently). give eye kisses (slowly close your eyes, hold closed for 5 - 10 seconds then slowly open). use food. it is all about building trust. i hope they have some knowledge or come to this site for some help. i have dealt with a lot of ferals in my life and they are just cats that want to be loved and taken care of. all mine are ferals (former) and they are loving and wonderful.  oh i know you will be fine. you are cognizant of watching for assuming so you will do fine. i don't see you as a hypocrite.  yeah, sometimes it is just them. my ferals were playing with a mouse last night. the other day they didn't care. if a cat doesn't want to play with a real mouse they will not play with a toy of any kind.  just do your best, don't spend too much money because it may not be the toy. make sure you make the toy act like prey (a mouse, etc). those kind of halting movements. and make the toy go around the corner and make them get intrigued.  i think that is very wise. it is interesting, i actually find animals very good at having conscience. i see mine actually be sympathetic. it is pretty amazing. i think you have it right trying to find the good people in this world.  some cats are more loners. i have a feral like that. some are more close. it just depends. i do get a sense that ember cares more about the animals than you think. i think it is more than just looking for warmth. i think ember is very special. the bond you have with her and she has with you is awesome. i have a sense there is no where else she would rather be.   that is good. yeah, i don't think it is anything to worry about.  yep, sounds like mine. i just fed the ferals and the one did exactly what frost does. they love to share always thinking the grass is greener on the other side. it also says to me they are very comfortable with each other.  contact alley cat allies and ask them if they have volunteers in your area to help do a tnr. just explain that you can't afford to get them spayed or neutered right now but you want to do the right thing. they hopefully have someone in your area to do it. there are so many people who are willing to do tnr and many have organizations or vets that do free or discounted procedures. controlling the population is our number 1 goal. so just ask around, i am sure you will find someone to help out. tnr is the most humane thing to do in addition to easing issue with indoor cats. let me know if you need ideas on how to handle this. i do tnr all the time and though i am not an expert trapper i do alright. the feral segment of this site is excellent as well.  
 i struggle with this same thing as well!! my wife and i were pretty good about play time with our cat when he was just a kitten, now that he has gotten a little older we struggle to play with him, especially after we come back from work. we can almost see the look of disappointment in his face every day, it's heart breaking. we are trying to get better about it to keep him more active and happy. i'm currently looking into getting one of these cat condo things you hang on the back of a door that i saw on catsnirvana. the laser pointers, feathers and everything has kind of lost its luster it seems. our cat loves to play hide and seek with us, so i think this will be a fun thing to get him more engaged and excited.    
 isn't it amazing?!?!?! things like that are so special, i know exactly how you feel.  that is great. you can always call the city (or whoever is in charge of your community) and ask about any ordinances etc. i just want you to be protected. you never know if there is someone in your area that is difficult. i know i have a person that is terrible. but it is very promising to hear. animal friendly, yea!!!  the dog probably is good. he is smart enough to know the liability and danger. i think i want to live in your community!! sounds cool.  yes, as long as we have the best interests at heart then i think we do what is best. it is hard to do but important. there are health benefits and fighting benefits in addition to reproduction benefits.  i like your mom. she is really proactive. if you do just make sure you are comfortable you will not get in trouble and make sure you watch so you can take the food in so other animals don't come around. i guarantee you did not scare him off. i feed some and don't always see them that often. i have my regulars but the others come around sometimes often sometimes not. don't worry, he'll love you.  great plan. i know you always think things through which is great.  
 it is an odd sight seeing the mature cat who kind of reminds me of one of those too-good-for-you types sometimes with his eyes all wide and that look of sheer playfulness. i always love it though i'm not entirely sure why. he looks a bit crazy, like if you move too fast he might attack.  yeah, it's just so confusing and hard to not worry over. honestly, it probably wouldn't bother me as much if it was ember or ash. well, it would bother me, but it wouldn't seem like as big of a deal since they're a bit moodier. but frost? my sweet, loving, friendly, not-a-care-in-the-world frost? he's never been aggressive in his life. i know this isn't true aggression, but it's the closest he's ever gotten.  unfortunately, you never know if they can live in a home until you try. it would be nice if you could tell right off the bat whether or not they could be a housecat, wouldn't it? but it seems like they'd still have at least some of those feral instincts even if they are mostly tamed, so they do have a chance living outside. you can't save them from every danger, but can you ever? a tamed feral has a better chance of living outside than any of my cats if they managed to get out and run off. it might be a slim chance, but it still exists. if they seem happy then i would say it's probably worth it. as sad as it is, at least they get to live out what lives they have knowing they're loved.  yeah, i'll get on there. it'll probably wait until this weekend though. it always takes quite a bit of time to type those things up. i need to post about stella on a dog forum too because she hasn't been eating right, so i'll do those two things this weekend.  he is definitely tough to keep track of. i went out a little after six today and couldn't see any signs of him. i'd like to sit out there longer, but it's so dark i can't see much and it's very cold. it was low thirties today and probably even colder then since it was already dark.  i didn't really think the opossum would be much of an issue, but i don't know much about them to know for sure. any animal could cause issues if hungry, but they don't really seem like the type to start anything. i don't know why people don't like them. i, personally, have nothing against them. i can't afford to feed one though, so i won't be encouraging any. it's interesting that they all do okay with each other though. i haven't seen any raccoons yet, but i wouldn't have expected to see an opossum at four either.  i will. i think i'm going to put off contacting anyone until next week though. that way maybe i could figure out a bit more of his schedule and possibly even a little more of his temperament. if not then i'll probably go ahead and contact them, but i'd like to be able to offer as much information as i can. i'm not sure if i should do it next week though or if i should wait until i try setting out some food. we could set up a cage anyway and hope for the best. i'm kind of interested to see if we catch any other cats. however, i'd like to be able to offer as much information as i can which, at this point, isn't much.  i'll definitely make sure to get advice from you or someone else first. i have absolutely no clue what i'm doing and i definitely don't want to do anything to harm this cat--or any other animals--in any way. i'm really too paranoid to try anything on my own anyway.  
 i'll definitely be watching frost when i can, but i can't see anything happening to provoke it. no one seems nervous around him and he's absolutely as sweet as can be with me. i don't see him in the litter box much, but it doesn't seem like they're every empty even right after being cleaned out. eating is back and forth with him. they've mostly been doing fine other than thursday night we ran out of their wet food and so i had to use a can that they didn't like. in the end, frost was the only one i couldn't get to eat at all and ash eat maybe half of it. however, the next morning no one wanted to eat and i'm not sure why. they don't get wet food in the morning though i might change that. they usually eat fine without it in the morning though they refuse to in the evenings.  i think you're right about it being the humans most of the time. i won't say it's the same every time. i don't have the experience to be able to say that every cat could have a happy life indoors. i think at least most can, but there may be some who simply don't like being trapped inside. i can't say since i've never worked with them before. i was actually just think that, from what i've read, it seems like ferals have fewer issues with resident cats than housecats. it makes sense in a way, and yet doesn't in another. obviously they have to get used to sharing the world with other animals and they often live with other cats, but it seems like they'd be more wary too. like, you hear about cats being territorial and yet those gets live in peace with each other. it's contradicting. i think what you do for your cats, inside and out, is fantastic. it's a lot more than what many others would do and it's a lot more than what i'm capable of doing in my current situation. i understand it's hard. it's hard for me to even think about jax out in the cold and he's a cat i've only seen once! i can only imagine how difficult it must be once you actually get attached. but every little thing counts. sometimes it's the little things that count the most.  i'm not sure if i'm posting tonight or tomorrow. i was hoping to get on earlier today and do it so i wouldn't forget, but i left around eleven and didn't get back until almost eight. it takes a while for me to type things up since i always make them longer than they probably need to be. stella, i think, is fine, but she isn't want to eat in the mornings. doesn't matter what we do. change foods, add water, add wet; she doesn't want it. i have to hand feed her the tiniest pieces and work up to her eating on her own and i simply don't have time for that in the mornings. she eats fine in the evenings.  i haven't seen him yet. i'm going to keep looking, but it's getting really cold out. if it would warm up a little i could sit outside for a while. i hope he has somewhere at least somewhat warm to stay. i would really like to see him in the daylight so i could see what condition he's in, but at this point i just want to see him, light or dark. i want to find out when he's coming around. i will probably start contacting people this week. i might wait until tuesday or wednesday just so i can see if i can find out when he's coming around. if not, then i'll go ahead and do so. he is coming around so maybe we can trap him even without that information.  it's almost sad that we have to be careful about raccoons. if i had the money and the space to not worry about neighbors or roads, i wouldn't mind feeding anyone who came by, but i definitely don't want to put cats at risk. i won't be doing anything to attract animals as it is though. even if fights weren't a problem, i don't have the money or the space.  i won't do anything unnecessary. i just want to do what's best for them and sometimes that's backing off and letting someone who knows better step in whether that's through action or simply letting them give me advice. i don't intend on doing anything without asking for help first.  
 yeah, i don't know what it's about. she isn't young anymore, but the problem is she's not always eating even throughout the day. sometimes i come home and it hasn't been touched, sometimes there's a hole in the center, and then there are times it's completely empty. i also don't know what's her and what's frost because he sometimes likes to snack on dog food though i haven't seen him do it in a while and i don't think he usually eats much.  well, i'm kind of waiting until i see him before i do anything drastic. i'm still going back and forth on whether or not i'm going to contact anyone before seeing him. i'm thinking i'll contact one of the people, but not an organization. i don't want to be a bother or it to turn out he's already neutered. i haven't seen him yet, but i keep forgetting to go outside too. i'll have more time over the weekend though.  i figured it would be a start. if he's healthy and neutered, then it seems likely he's owned. i'm pretty sure he doesn't have a tipped ear. if he's underweight and unneutered, then he probably doesn't have a home. if he's underweight, i'm not really sure that i care if he has an owner or not. it's bad enough he's out in the cold wandering the streets.  
 sometimes dogs do that. some dogs are great eaters through their, others get picky, some appetites get less over time. i usually watch their weight and their behavior. if that is normal then i don't worry too much. it is always best to contact a vet if you sense something isn't right though.  i understand, i know you will do what is best.  some have tipped ears and some places take a notch (sideways v) out of the side. yes, you have a good handle on him. we will see.  
 that was cool, you usually aren't on so early. you are really a serious photographer, very cool.  maybe she is tired of the dog food a little? i know i have to switch around food for my animals as they get bored with it. at least she is her excitable, energetic self. weight and behavior are usually very telling.  it sounds like you are an expert at photography so i am sure you will get great photos. you will see him. it sounds like he is around a lot. it is hard, some of the other ferals i have that come and go don't always come around so i know how hard it is to see them. but they do eventually come around. i am interested to hear more about him.  
 it probably won't happen too often, but right now things are running a bit differently. it's more stressful during the day, but i have less to do in the evening. well, i'm an amateur photographer. i've been doing it for a bit over a year now. i hope to start selling eventually, but i just got an editing software so i've been playing around with that lately.  we've changed her food a few times. she was on pedigree and we've done a couple different kinds. now she's on purina one with tender bites. it seemed to help at first, but not so much anymore.  i hope. if he's coming around at six then it'll be difficult. it's really dark by then. it would be easier in the summer since it stays light longer. there's not much of an opening now that it gets so dark so early. i'm going to keep trying to find him and i'll get pictures at some point in time. i'd like to know more about him myself.  
 i get to be early again too. i'll have more free time for the next few weeks. it'll be a bit calmer too. i get to spend more time with the animals--who do absolutely nothing but sleep all day.  thanks! i'll be looking into ways to sell eventually. right now i'm getting used to the editing software and i need practice with lighting as well as using backdrops.   well, i guess i'll hope it's just that stella is getting a bit older. she's not an old dog by any means, but not exactly a puppy either. she seems fine otherwise. we got her some socks because i worry about her being out in the cold and playing in the snow which she loves to do. she has such short fur. surprisingly, she actually keeps the socks on. they fall off on their own though.  that's what i'm hoping for. i want to figure out his schedule so i can work with it. this weekend hopefully i won't freeze outside. i want to be able to see if he comes around.   i hate getting my picture taken. i don't do fake smiles very well. taking pictures, once you know what you're doing, isn't all that hard. the camera (if you have a good one) does most of the work. a lot of it is actually in the editing though. the only picture you can't make look at least somewhat good is a blurry one. pretty much everything else can be fixed.  
 well, they are getting new toys for christmas. some of the catnip mice i ordered haven't arrived yet though. i did get them a new wand toy too, but it was a cheap on. i figured it would be a good way to see if they preferred a different toy or if they just don't want to play.  i'm working on handling it better. i wouldn't ever hurt her, but i'm not exactly patient either. i've been trying to focus more and more on positive reinforcement, but it seems like while she's getting better in some places, she's getting worse in others. there's been a lot of noise outside today and i can't even open the door without her whining. but she's been slowly (very slowly) getting better about people coming in. she calms down a bit faster and starts behaving since i began using carrots as treats.  lol. no, there's no such thing as too many pictures. especially when ember is a great little model and ash doesn't care at all. frost is the only one who gives me trouble about getting pictures which is sad because he really is a beautiful cat. everyone falls in love with him.  i don't think it's all talent though. of course, it gives one a bit of a head start, but skill is mostly gained by practice whether that talent is there or not. i would say i have a talent for writing and photography, but not drawing. just and interest in it and i think my ability to see a picture in my head helps. otherwise i started off terribly. and i'm still not great even after a few years of practicing. it is great that i have the talent in writing and photography. those are two things that can make a lot of money and does not require me to work all day. i can still run a shelter and hopefully make enough to keep it running smoothly. and yes, there are a lot of options. even if being an author of books doesn't work out, i could still write for magazines or something else.   i hope. i don't like seeing her tense. she seems pretty content otherwise, but i'm an animal lover, a perfectionist, and a worrier. i don't want to see them upset for even a second though i know it's impossible to avoid the occasional issue.   there was one hiss today so far, but everything seems pretty calm. perhaps there is something in the changing of seasons. i did read that dogs could suffer depression due to the lack of daylight. it could be similar with cats.  i had all three of them in bed with me earlier. frost laid next to me and ember was laying on my blanket by my feet. then ash came up and laid next to ember. that was nice to see since i've never actually seen him go to her other than when he decides he wants to be on the top of the cat tree and she's already there. then he was actually grooming her which as very sweet though she didn't seem to appreciate it all that much. she would pull away from him for a moment and then try to groom herself and he'd starting licking her and she'd pull away again. and even earlier today ash came over and snuggled. he laid partly on my lap and even put his head on my chest. i'm still not used to this new, cuddlier ash.  i suppose so. it was sweet though also kind of irritating at times. i pretty much refuse to move when i have a cat on me other than frost since it seems like he's on my lap at least three times a day. if i refused to move him, i wouldn't get much done. but i got a bit stiff and sore waiting for ember to get up. she'll usually lay on my lap for a few minutes and then leave, but there were a couple of times where she stayed with me for probably at least fifteen, maybe twenty minutes.  
 it is always good to try different toys. and always make the toy act like prey (like a mouse, bird, etc).  it is hard to be patient at times. and remember, cats can pick up on that stress also. it is tricky but i know you can handle it. that is good that she is getting better. just keep working on her.  exactly!! frost is a male diva!! they all sound like great cats. they are all unique but lovable just the same.  yes, it is effort (hard work) also. i agree. yes, those skills will only increase in demand. telling a story is really important whether it is for a product, a service, an experience, or for entertainment. a great skill to have. combine that with the skill to show it in pictures and that is valuable.  i know what you mean. we want them to be as happy as possible. we just have to do our best and not be too hard on ourselves or others. it is really more art than science to know when to push a little and when to back off. it takes experience and you are well on your way to getting there.  it could be, i don't know. i think the colder weather can cause worries about their safety and food source. i think that is going on with my ferals as they seem more territorial. but it could be the daylight, i never thought about that. i was thinking maybe the moon. interesting.  wow!!! cool!!!! what a moment!! i love to hear that!!!   i know the feeling. body parts start to fall asleep, stiffness sets in. hahahahaha, i love that they love to be with me but i know what you mean. i'll try to be typing her and they are in the way rubbing, etc. doesn't help the productivity but it is sweet they feel that bond!!! pretty cool.  
 i know but you have a great handle on it. i think you will achieve what you want with her or at the very least improve things.   i think you are right. and computers and robots can't really get that emotional aspect of what you are looking to do. every career has challenges and risks. the key is to keep doing your best and working hard. never give up and keep moving forward. listen to your customers (whether it is co-workers or end customers) and work hard to do what is best. always try to save so you have a cushion if things take a turn. i am not worried about your future, you are intelligent and hard working and diligent. those are skills that will always be in demand. just always believe in yourself.  the biggest thing you can give is love and respect and kindness. it applies to animals and people. the greatest gift is yourself and your love to them. i know exactly what you mean, they do tend to like the box. hahahaha, so true.  yes, i wish. but we have to read their body language and communicate in non-verbal ways. but the good news is it is possible and we do tend to make their lives better in the longer run if we try.  hahahaha, yep. always there it seems. my arm fell asleep last night as mine like to lay on it. oh what i would do for a solid night sleep. my one girl has been here with me all morning, stepping on the keyboard, etc. too funny.  yeah, cats will do that. if a cat really bit then there would be blood etc. so i am guessing it was either a love bite or he was saying "not there" or something if he was sensitive where you were petting him. or he was just amped up a little and a little too excited. i had a siamese that did that, she wouldn't want to hurt me but she would let me know that she didn't like me dealing with her hair (it would knot sometimes). just be careful as you don't want him to do that to someone else in the house as they may react differently than you do since they aren't comfortable with him.  oh yes, they love ribbons and strings. and sometimes the shine from the wrapping. and ornaments that dangle from the tree. we also don't have a tree because of the cats. too dangerous for them.  great!!! i love to hear that the boys played. it really depends on their mood so often.  
 i think you do, i trust your instincts and knowledge. that is pretty common, some dogs like others, some don't. ember and stella get along pretty well. stella sounds like a very happy dog, you must be doing a lot right with her.  there is a lot of risk with everything. i guess we just have to just do our best, work hard, never give up. worrying doesn't change anything except maybe keep us from finding solutions and places to find improvement. planning is good, worrying not productive. follow your heart and your dreams. happiness is more than money or "stuff". enjoying what you do is so important, making a difference. so fulfilling. you are very intelligent, have a great personality, have the desire to work hard. you will succeed in whatever you choose i believe. do a great job, work hard and things tend to work out and you'll enjoy the journey.   yep, sounds like your experience and feelings are like mine. and they can be so warm......  yeah, cats really don't bite (serious bite) unless they feel really threatened. usually it is a love bite or a warning. yes, you know him and know his intent. i am not worried, you know cats and what is best.  it happens since cats love to paw things, climb things etc. and of course a ribbon or a string is like nirvana for a cat!! hahahahaha  ember must not have been in the mood.  but it is fine, she will be. at least ash did and frost a little.  i typed all this with a cat purring in my lap and over one arm. one handed typing. ..........   
 sometimes small dogs do act out against bigger dogs. it is more common than you probably think. yes, she does sound sweet and doesn't sound like she would hurt anyone.  time and effort is much greater a donation than money. doing a calendar, highlighting the beautiful rescue cats, telling a little story about them could be a wonderful way to raise awareness and money. and i will admit, it could get your name (brand) out and lead to other business (though i know that is not the intent but sometimes good things come from good deeds).  it seems to work out that way all the time. the grass is always greener on the other (dog bed) side.  changing food can definitely cause diarrhea.   i think you are exactly right. they have to be that way to survive. yes, how we act has a huge influence on how the animal reacts. confidence is really important, not being reckless though. i actually have tried to break up a feral cat figth which was reckless. i wasn't injured but i would never do it again. i was very lucky.   totally agree. it is wonderful they love to be with us.   wow!!! awesome!!! that is special!! i love to hear that. he realized he was missing out. terrific moment.  
 oh, i know. i had a chihuahua that was smaller than stella and chased a black lab out of our yard. small dogs are fierce. but it's more of a fear thing with her. she usually only attacks when it's a place she's familiar with. anywhere else and she cowers in fear. which is sort of a problem because i'd really like to have a big dog when i have the space.  yes, i think it's a good idea. i'd have to figure out exactly how i'd go about it and i'll probably wait just a little longer to gain more experience, but i'd like to look into it. perhaps the shelter could let me take pictures of their animals and use their pictures in a calendar. especially the animals no one seems to want. it could spread the word. and, of course, it would help me in the long run. i actually visited another shelter today that i might volunteer at when i'm with my dad. it seems like a really nice shelter too.   i could see myself jumping in the middle of a fight. it's kind of instinct. i have jumped in the middle of a fight between ember's mother and frost. well, it was a one sided fight. she somehow managed to open my bedroom door in the middle of the night and went tearing after him. that was the worst fight i intervened and i was mostly unscathed.   it was really wonderful. i'll admit i actually got a bit emotional over it. i'm still not sure i totally believe it even happened. it's interesting watching them change as they age. you never know what kind of cat they'll end up being in the future.  
 i think you can get stella to get along with a big dog. i wouldn't worry. you know what you are doing.  exactly, i think that is great for you and the shelter. maybe you can take good pictures and they can create a facebook page etc. and have postings in the shelter for people wanting to adopt. etc. so many positives can come from it.  that is great you might volunteer at another shelter. good for you!!  oh my, well i hope you don't have to again. just be careful as it is dangerous to jump in.   so true. and ash has responded to your love. that is really special to share that love. i was emotional about it as i know the feeling and the impact of that on both the cat and the person. it really is special.  
 i think (rightly or wrongly) that dogs are a lot easier to get along than cats since they don't have such territorial instincts. now stella does seem a little different. i think picking the right big dog will be very important and just getting stella more use to other dogs (like when she walks). i have had a lot of dogs in my life and i never really had issues. i had abused dogs and when they joined the family they just got along (though they were skittish at first). most dogs do not want to fight. sure they may squabble over food etc but typically they are good at accepting. i think you have good instincts. you know more than you give yourself credit and you are intelligent. i think stella will surprise you too, that she will get use to the dog and adapt. dogs are a lot easier in my opinion.   it is best to grab something just so you are more protected. it can be dangerous sadly.   i know you will continue to provide the best life for your animals, i have no doubt about that. your love for them guarantees it.  people who don't understand the bond and love are missing out on something very special sadly. hopefully they will recognize it as their lives will be better in my opinion.  
 i think that, just as it is with cats, it depends on the dog's breed and personality. some breeds were bred for guarding livestock or property and those breeds are known for being territorial. some breeds are simply stubborn. however, more often than not you are probably right. i don't know of a single breed that wasn't bred to be loyal and eager to please so they tend to take to training better than cats. my problem is that i simply don't have to resources. we have family who asked me to walk their large dog and i accepted. i wanted to use the experience to get stella adjusted. but it only lasted two or three walks and they stopped asking me to. my cousins would probably let me, but i don't know what their dog's experience on the leash is and i haven't really talked to them much.  everyone got their christmas presents yesterday! they all seemed to like their new toys so i'm happy about that. i always worry they won't like things. stella is only hard because nothing can hold up to her teeth, but the cats can be a bit tricky. nothing holds their interest for very long. however, they got mice that you put catnip in and mice that are made of catnip. i think ember was a bit overwhelmed. she had three of the five mice. ash went running off with one. they got a new wand toy. it was a cheap one. they all loved it except frost though he starting taking to it by the end of our play session today. i ran through the house with it trailing behind me. stella got an elk antler that she loves and a stuffed, double stitched hedgehog toy that's already frayed a bit. oh well. it's day two and doesn't have a hole in it. that's impressive when it comes to her and toys.  it was cute though because they all seemed to know they were getting stuff. they all came to me when i got their stockings and ember put her head in the cat stocking while i was getting things out and opening them up. they were totally into it.  i got a diffuser and some essential oils. i'm going to post about it to make sure i don't get anything harmful and i'm curious to see if anyone has seen an affect on their cats. i'm kind of hoping it helps ember calm down a bit. of course, right now she's perfectly content draped over my arms, but there was a bit of hissing today. i don't know why, but it didn't end in anything.  
 i think you will make the best decisions. you are obviously considering what is best so you are thinking things through. all your points are spot on. i would add one thing, dogs learn and cats learn. so there may be some moments where it seems scary but they work it out. dogs and cats are really smart and they learn how to deal with each other.  wow, stella attacked a pit bull. yikes. i am glad the pit bull was sweet.   i think all dogs can be happy with other dogs. they tend to be more social. i am sure you will help stella get along. your instincts are good and you desire is strong.  you achieved what i wanted to achieve, the animals loving their new toys. well done!! i love that ember is playing with the wand toy. wonderful. i know, my dogs were destructive too.  at least it has lasted this long.  so ash was making the backdrop move? no wonder ember decided to play. cats love when something moves under a blanket or other cover. you did the right thing to do some positive association. they will get over it, ember just wanted to play. my youngest just wanted to play with my oldest and there was hissing. i just did some positive association and they are now here fine. i am sure there will be lingering issues but they get over it as i expect ember and ash will.   i don't think it was redirected aggression. i think ember saw something and wanted to play, ash took it as an attack and it escalated. i don't think there was anything more to it than just misinterpretation. it happens. they have a little history so it may linger but the more they see each other without issues the more they will get over it. remember slaps and growls and hissing are communication (albeit it more direct like yelling instead of talking) and they didn't get into a true fight. so they expressed their displeasure and that was it. that is how it should be. i think all your efforts have helped them get to the point where they work it out with your help. that is good.  
 it is tricky. i think you will make the best decision. is the german shepherd a good boy? or is he kind of wild?  i am so sorry. pit bulls have a reputation but i think it is unfair. the ones i have known have been so sweet. of course if they are trained to fight etc they can be different but their general disposition seems to be more sweet.   that is great, i am sure frost will come around to it. as least ash and ember are loving it. i know, some dogs are so strong. i am impressed the toy has lasted this long.  yep, that is exactly how cats act. always being mischievous. loving to go under, play with moving things, etc. you might be a star animal photographer in the future!! it is fun to watch and it does teach patience for the human!!   they have a little bit of a history so they are more cautious with each other. just try to keep doing positive association with them and try to avoid any negative encounters with them. so when ember gets tense just reassure her, talk softly, confidently, calmly, just comfort her. "it's ok", things like that. and as time goes by they will trust each other more. personally, i wouldn't spend the money on products. i would just keep building their confidence and make every encounter between them as positive as possible.  wow, great!!! that is awesome. not only is it great fro ash to bond but it is great they are near each other experiencing a positive encounter and feeling good. positive association. such a good thing in so many ways!!! well done!!!  
 you know, i thought he would be more wild. he's normally locked up in the other half of the house and stands there whining. the dogs get less than half the yard to use and he's a large dog. i doubt he gets enough exercise. but i got to spend some time with him and he was really quite calm. he didn't like it if i stopped petting him and he was a bit antsy when the other dogs came in, but he was pretty well behaved. he didn't want to let me leave though. every time i'd try to go to the door, he'd move in front of me. i wish i had the space for a big dog. i think they'd let me keep him. he's really a good dog in a less than great situation.  yes, that reputation is entirely unfair. we see so many attacks by them because that's what they want us to see. people have really made them into the enemy. what's more, most of those dogs trained to fight aren't people aggressive at all. a person would have to jump in the middle of the fights and break the dogs apart without being attacked, so they had to be people friendly. just not dog friendly.   yeah, i'm hoping he'll come around. i figured i'd give it a few days and then, if he's not playing, i'll try the last one we were using though he didn't play much with that one either.  ember especially likes going under things. she likes laying under blankets with me and gets under the rug in my room. sometimes she likes to lay underneath me. they definitely teach patience. i think they also teach one to appreciate the little things though. all those moments spent with them and watching them enjoy simple things such as boxes and bags. and those moments when ash gets on my lap.  it seems like things have gotten worse though. we had another incident. they don't last long and i only have to say something to break it apart, but i feel like every incident is a step in the wrong direction. i got them all together with treats and did a training session again. i think doing the tricks helps further take their mind off of what happened. i'll keep trying, but if i don't seem to be getting anywhere i'll probably go back to calming products. if i found something that could work, i could build up their confidence without having these setbacks. i would rather not have her on anything long-term, but maybe i could take her off of it once she realizes no one is there to hurt her. i don't know. i'm not in a hurry to get anything. i'll keep trying.  yes, it was really great. he got on my lap twice yesterday and once today, all with the dog nearby. he's really becoming rather cuddly. if only he'd start sleeping in my bed at night. i kind of worry about him because the other two sleep in my bed during the winter, but he doesn't. if frost is cold, it seems like he would be too and he has no one to snuggle up with. i guess he manages though. his fur is a bit thicker than frost's silky coat.  
 given that then if you think you can handle him i think it would be good for him to get walks and love. it sounds like he enjoys your company. he sounds like a great dog.  i agree. i just wish more was done to stop the people abusing animals. i think it is the people more than the dogs that are the problem.   let's hope. but he is doing well so other than for health it isn't absolutely necessary. but it would be nice if he would play.  some of my cats love to go under things as well. i think you are so right, they teach patience and true love and appreciation. i know they have changed me in positive ways. one of my girls is on me now purring, rubbing. and i am being patient!! it is wonderful that she loves so much. very special.  yes, we definitely want them to only have positive encounters but negative ones do happen sadly. what was the latest incident? where did it happen? try to remember what triggered it, where it happened to see if there are any commonalities. it is positive they rebound quickly. for some reason ember and ash have a little something between them. i am guessing the incident with the backdrop is lingering. just keep doing positive associations and positive encounters. especially between ember and ash. the more they are together without incident the more trust will be built. there are enough positive encounters between them not to really worry. they just seem to have short tempers with each other at times.  wow, that is cool. i love to hear he is getting cuddly. i am sure he is fine. they get pretty warm in cat beds etc.  
 that is cool. yes usually when a "stranger" comes a dog will be most "on alert". i am guessing you have a good vibe about you so you are probably different but it does sound like he is a good dog.  some dogs have gone through a lot. maybe she did. hopefully someone with experience can adopt her and work with her. i would be nervous and stressed being in a cage for while too.   well that is good. do you think you can put a scratching post near the ottoman? i am not an expert on getting cats to stop scratching but giving them an option seems to help. i am sure their are threads on here with other good ideas as well.  a lot of cats love small spaces. totally normal. that is one of the most insightful and wonderful words on cats and relationships i have seen. you are so wise and so correct!! i wish every human could feel what you feel and know.  yep!! i know exactly. so true. it is amazing. just wonderful.  you handled it well, diffusing it and turning into a positive with treats. i am guessing ember wanted to play, jumped on the chair, ash took it differently and he got a little defensive and it almost escalated. but you turned it from a potential negative to a positive. well done. they have a little of a history and a little trust deficiency so they have the potential to escalate but you are doing what is needed to build trust between them. it just takes time. i have been there many times.  awww, poor guy. it happens. just do your best (which i know you will). it is hard to know if he is uncomfortable or if he is playing the game. just do your best, you will get him through it.  
 yes, he does seem like a very good dog. if i do take him out for walks, it'll have to be in the spring. i can't even convince myself to take stella out for a walk. it's cold! i'd probably make myself if i had a coat for her though, but she ate one of her socks and we haven't gotten around to getting a coat.  yeah, many of them tend to get a bit antsy being cooped up the majority of the time. i will admit i was a bit nervous around her at first too. not because i thought she was aggressive, but because i thought she was scared. and scared can be dangerous. it would have helped if someone would have introduced us to her rather than leaving us to fend for ourselves. that's one of the very few complaints have about that shelter. after a couple of training sessions, you're on your own.  yeah, i just did that. the probably is that it's so big they can easily go around it if they want. plus, they scratch from different places. frost likes getting on top of it and scratching while ash likes using the corner of it. i put a post by the corner and a corrugated horizontal post on top, but when i get the chance to go to petsmart, i'll get one or two more of the horizontal ones. i need it in the living room because ash has a thing for the carpet. not that it really helps. he just uses both.  i wish everyone could see and feel it too. cats are really an integral part of my life. i don't know where i'd be without them. it would be great if everyone would accept the lesson they, and other animals, have to teach. i believe we could learn a lot from them if only we watched and listened.  time i'm willing to give them. i just want them to be happy. they did cuddle for a brief period of time today which was the first in a while. looking back, i realized i hadn't found them curled up together on my bed in a while. as if sensing my concern over their relationship, ember went over and laid next to him. an attempt to get warm, i'm sure, but it was a relief. they seem to be getting along today. i don't think i've heard frost hiss in a few days either.  well, we managed to get the knot out today. i thought we'd have to work on it another day, but that didn't end up being the case. i'll try being more careful. it's just hard because i try not to stretch his leg out too much, but i guess i'm going to have to even if only for a few seconds. and maybe i'll remember to feel around every few days to ensure he's not getting any.  
  yeah, it happens sadly. she probably thought it was a toy to play with.   agreed!!! why freeze??? yuck.  yes, it is very hard. very hard to find people, balance the costs, handle all the things that need to be done. i admire them for trying though. as long as the animals are well cared for that is the main thing.  great!!! that is great to hear. let's hope it continues to work. fingers crossed.  that is great. i think the true love they have is so special, great and powerful. i know it sure has helped me in so many ways. i am so lucky to have them. i am glad they have your love and you have theirs.  i know. you did a great job!!  we'll see if there is any behavioral improvement. it is just a theory. it happens, we don't always see mats etc. i am just glad you got rid of it now.  
 i think it's anxiety. she's always been a bit clingy, especially with me. and my aunt wasn't working so stella wasn't left alone much. then, even when my aunt did leave, there were other dogs. i doubt they were very good company, but it might have helped. before we took her in, we were bringing her with us every other weekend to let her and the cats adjust, but she would actually get depressed when we took her back. she would whine at the door for close to an hour and didn't want to eat. after a few times, we just kept her. and when we leave she won't touch her own toys. they'll be exactly where they were left, but if i don't give her a play session and/or something to do while we're gone, she'll tear up cat toys, tissues, napkins, etc. fortunately, nothing important. however, she does have a nasty habit of getting in the litter boxes every now and then. i have yet to figure out how to break that habit.  yeah, i can only imagine. sometimes i wonder why i want to get myself into that. but then i think of all the animals those shelters can't help and all those that i could. the more shelters we have, the better because that can help take the strain off of the existing ones. and decrease the amount of animals going into kill shelters.  i'm glad too. my life would be much more boring without them. which is saying something since it's not all that exhilarating. but they make sure i have something to do. ember has been especially needy today. she goes around the house meowing like ash. so i have to get up and go follow her. normally she gets a toy and carries it somewhere, then starts meowing until i get up and follow her. she'll usually show me her "kill" and then demand attention. and she'll keep meowing until i do that or just pick the toy up.  well, so far so good. the only thing i noticed is that ember got agitated when ash was in my room last night. she didn't attack, but she looked like she wanted to. he was on the ottoman (after scratching both scratchers) when she came in. she only came a few steps into my room before stopping and she started lashing her tail. after a moment, she walked up to the base of the ottoman and stared at him. i was just about to break it up because it was getting to the point she looked like she'd attack when ash jumped down and ran out of my room. i was surprised ember didn't go after him. usually the sudden movement would set her off. i brought him back in though and set him on my bed and petted him. i don't want him to think he can't go in my room. though, honestly, i don't know why i refer to it as "my room." i get to decorate it and sleep in it, but it's really "ember's room." but ash didn't stick around. i let him leave and he walked right past ember. she seemed to be calmer when i brought him in there.  
 it could be anxiety. poor thing. but you will help her. i used gates to keep the dogs away from the litter boxes. that was the only way i figured out how to stop it.   your mindset is exactly he right one. one has to be doing it for the animals. otherwise it is so difficult i think. not everybody is able to do it but thank goodness people do devote their lives to saving animals.   yep, they do that. they love attention and love and play. one of mine has been real clingy as well. it is cute they love their attention.  that is a good encounter. ember could have been bad (territorial) but she chose not to. terrific. and it sounds like ash was pretty good (i would like to see him walk away normally and confidently). when a cat runs they can give the misinterpretation of being prey. but if they walk confidently away then they tend not to be attacked.  think of it as "our room" or "their room" as opposed to "ember's room". a small thing but how we think of things and how we act can have an impact sometimes. but that is small, you are doing a great job with them!!  
 that's interesting. i would need one that opened like a door though because i'd still have to get stella and myself through. stella is around the same height as them, but shorter in length. she's a bit of a coward though so i doubt she'd go through it if it was small enough that she even might touch it. like i said, she refuses to even so much as touch the doors.  well, i'd really like to. i don't know what else i'd do. i like the idea of traveling and have considered a writing job that would let me do so, but i could never give up animals.   it was cute to watch. i wish i got it on video, but it was dark and i figured she'd stop the second i moved to turn the light on. they've been doing good. i guess maybe that knot really did create some tension.  i'll post if it happens more than once, but there has been one or two occasions since he's been on the glucosamine that he got a bit defensive and he rarely tolerates much more than a few seconds before starting to get agitated. it was just that he seemed to react worse this time. i'm hoping it's just a one time thing, but if it keeps up then i'll definitely get some other opinions. he seems fine otherwise. he gets on the cat trees and on the bathroom sink even if he does normally slide off the other side because it's probably no more than an inch thick and curved.  
 the gates are like an accordion. you can slide them sideways and then slide back. my cats would go through them some dogs will go through them but maybe stella wouldn't.  i think you could do pretty much anything you choose. just choose something that you enjoy. oh, i know, you will always do something with animals whether it is volunteer or run your own.  i can imagine how cute it was. yes, anytime a person turns the light on or moves etc they stop.   i am glad they are doing well, maybe it was that ash was a bit uncomfortable?  it is tricky. at least it seems like he is better. if he is jumping up he must feel pretty good which is great. just keep an eye on him.  
 yes, that's what seemed to work with ember. the other two have little to no interest in it though. they seem to like being difficult.   
 i was looking at gates. didn't find what you mentioned, but they do have some with a small door in them. however, they're quite expensive. i've never had to buy a baby gate before. and i need two of them.  he is. they're all sweet. they show their affection in different ways, but once you figure that out it's easy to see.  
 well, he did very good today. like nothing was wrong in the slightest. he behaved very well and we didn't even have to hold him down to snip out the last of the knot. i brushed and petted him while my mom cut it out. he enjoyed the attention and was purring. i'm glad he's back to doing so well. it was a huge change. he never even so much as did his agitated meow. just purred the entire time.  that's true. and they don't even go after it very often. it's like photography. you take ten pictures and three, maybe four, are good. i go back and forth through the house ten times and they go after the toy three or four times.  we usually get the friskies 24 or 32 pack that comes with a few different flavors and they haven't had an issue eating that. i am considering a diet change though. i'm not sure i can until i'm getting a little more money though since it would probably end up being more expensive. but i've heard so many times now that their poop shouldn't really smell all that bad and that if it does it's often because of the diet. i'm not really sure what counts as "bad" though. it's not terrible, but you can usually tell when someone just went if you go in that room. it fades pretty quickly after being covered though.  well, he's not eating much anymore, but he was back to being at least close to normal. he's always been a bit fickle so it's a lot of back and forth. the vet wasn't worried so i'm guessing that, yes, he's still a good weight. we took him to the vet because of him not eating and they hadn't even so much as mentioned it. they called us with an update and we had to ask about his weight. they confirmed that he did lose about a pound. he went from ten pounds to nine, but they didn't seem concerned in the slightest. he does feel a bit bony if you feel through the fur, but not to point you can count his ribs or anything. unfortunately, i don't have a scale to weigh them on. if i do so (which they probably all need), i have to weigh myself and then weigh myself with the cat and i don't know how accurate it is.  it was really sweet. he didn't lay right next to me, but he slept by my pillows where frost usually sleeps. i don't know how long he stayed, but i fell asleep with him there.   ember managed to flip my screen upside down. i didn't know how to fix it and my mouse was working backwards. i managed to search it though and figured it out. she obviously disapproves of me giving my computer any attention.  
 wow, that is great!! great teamwork!!!  exactly. just keep trying and always try to make the toy act like prey.  food can have an impact, some cats are different as well. i am not an expert but it depends. my cats all eat the same things and i can tell which one is which. food can be tough. i am not an expert on food but i always focus on protein. "bad" is difficult. when a cat has ibs etc you can tell bad. usually if there is an issue you will see it in consistency and if they are going outside of the box that is a telltale sign. when you have time just post in the food section and the health section. usually if there is a problem it is pretty noticeable but it is always good to keep an eye out.  the vet is the best source. if they are not concerned then i wouldn't be too concerned. and watch for the consistency he is going and the number of times. look for changes.   awwwwwwww, that is so sweet and cool. wonderful!!!  yikes!! ember wouldn't see just do that???? glad you got it fixed.  
 you are early today.  i think that is fine. i know, it is hard to know but i think if it was an issue you would really know. it is hard to explain but it is scent, consistency, amounts, number of times, etc. it really is a combination of things. and then if they are not covering or going outside of the box. it depends if they ate fish or meat. things like that.  well, hissing does happen. i would guess someone did something. if all it is is a hiss then it isn't too worrying. on weight i always look for stability. so if a cat is losing a lot of weight every week then something is wrong. but if they are pretty stable then i don't worry too much. your instincts are good and you are intelligent. if something isn't right you will suspect it and look into it.  hahahaha, she is a computer genius!! she knows more about computers than i do!!  just think about them and think if they will work. i would say that i would have something pretty stable (so it doesn't fall, etc). if it isn't too high then the cats can jump it but stella may not try. just think it through so you don't waste your money on something that doesn't help.  
 i worry about everything, but i have to try not to. especially when everything else seems fine. frost tends to scratch at the side of the box more than the litter and ash sometimes scratches outsider of it so it's not too weird to think they might not manage to cover every time.  i don't hold anything against him hissing. i do worry about it making ember insecure though. i'd just like to know why he wants to be left alone so much and when no one has done anything.  that's a scary thought. maybe i should change my password.  i overthink everything so it's unlikely it won't be thought through. the more expensive one would probably be better/easier, but i have a hard time spending money. usually, that's a good thing, but sometimes it makes things difficult.  
 oh i know. when we love someone we always worry. because we want what is best. but we have to remain focused and not expend too much energy on worry which doesn't move us forward. but i know you know that and are working on that. as am i.  some of my cats also scratch the sides of the litter box etc. i honestly don't know why that is. if you find out please let me know. i am guessing there is some scent there they are trying to cover. i don't worry about it as long as everything else is fine.  oh i know. yes, we don't want it to stress ember. i am guessing someone looks at him or walks towards him. sometimes play is misinterpreted, or a look, or a movement. since nothing comes of it their communication is working.  she is probably posting on here when you are gone!! hahahaha  i know you will make the best decision. you are intelligent and i think if you think it is worth it you will do it and if you don't think so you will wisely not.  
 it's another one of those times that it would be nice if we could really communicate with them. figure out why they're doing it and then maybe explain why it's not going to do much of anything.  i guess her timid nature could work against her. it's kind of like they're at a stand still. no one wants to be the one to improve their relationship with each other. i don't really think it's her energy level. sometimes she stalks and pounces on them, but she never pushes it when they don't want to play. i wouldn't say she's a whole lot more playful than them. they all more or less go through spurts of energy and frost is a fairly playful cat. just not when i try to play with him. he's been obsessed with this one ball for three days now.  it's a scary thing. it really makes me wish i could remember more of when they were kittens. my memory is terrible. i honestly remember more of ember's brother than i do her. he was practically born a lap cat.  i won't. she's too cute. i can't ruin it. she's on my lap right now.  by the way, ash slept in my bed again. however, neither of the other two did. it's a little concerning. especially since ember has short fur.  
 i can believe that.  i would love to build more confidence, but i'm not sure what else to do. i break up the negative incidents and redirect their attention, they all get love and attention, they're fed in the same room so there is minimal separation, they have three cat trees, and i try to play with them every day, but they don't make it easy. they barely play at all and it's still more than they did with the last toy. ember gets two play sessions a day. i used to have three, but i was on break and have had trouble getting back in routine in the morning. it didn't seem to be making much of a difference though.  it was funny how random the sudden fascination was though. he still loves it. i don't think anything has held any of their attentions for so long.  that she is. a very demanding one, but a sweetie nonetheless.   i don't know, she's awfully stubborn, that one. i wish i saw them curled up together more often. it was always nice to see that. a reminder that my hard work has paid off and that, no matter how little she seems to care for him, she at least likes him enough to use him for warmth which is more than a lot of people can say. it seems like their relationship goes through phrases. sometimes they're great friends and sometimes they only just tolerate each other.  none of them were in my bed. it's so odd. ember deciding she doesn't like ash in bed isn't too surprising, but i wouldn't expect frost to let that stop him.  
 all right. i'll continue as i am. i know i need to stop worrying so much. i'm well aware that i can't achieve perfection, but i believe that continuing to strive for it will ensure that i truly do my best.  well, i would like to see them go back to cuddling. it's always reassuring. today they were both on my bed, but my aunt was here to help cut stella's nails so i don't know if ember had already been there or if she was hiding there. she was very tense, low down, and wide eyed. she usually greets me at the door when i get home so i wouldn't expect her to be on the bed, but it's not much of a hiding spot.  i'm a worrier, of course. i know it's probably nothing. but they haven't gone more than one night not sleeping in my bed since it got cold. ember did sleep with me last night. no frost, but he has more fur than her so i worry less.  
 i know but i think it is a feeling of more confidence that they drift apart. that they don't feel they "need" them anymore for protection etc.  i trapped my girl and usually when the trap goes off the other cats run. well, my boy (her brother) stayed around, didn't want to leave her. so i trapped him as well. then they were inseparable but as time went by and they felt more secure they "needed" each other less. i take it as a positive that they must feel pretty secure to not always be together. the main thing is they can cuddle if they want and they are happy. but i know what you mean. and it is good they are bonding with you so much.  i think she has made good progress (another sign you have built her confidence). i would hide too from loud rambunctious people!!   awwwwwwwwww so nice.  
 great. that is normal to have a "safe base". so glad that no one is throwing up.  does he act normal otherwise? is he less active as usual? does he eat the others food well or just nibble? the grass is always greener for cats. :/  see if you can maybe give the food as treats. kind of feed him. i don't want to start bad habits and have him wanting to be hand fed all the time but if you are worried about his intake it is worth the effort so he does eat.  it is never easy, is it. :/  
 well, not throwing up food anyway. ash has a furball just about three times a week. often times more.  yes, he seems to. he's fickle when it comes to play, but they all are and that's nothing new. sometimes he plays more than the other two, sometimes not at all. he lays with me every day and most nights. i can't say i've paid much attention to how much he eats of the others'. when i catch him, i shoo him off and will usually take him back to his own bowl where he may or may not eat a little more. he doesn't seem to eat very quickly though.  i did try to hand feed him a little from his bowl, but it was probably still seen "food." maybe if i put some in a treat dispenser it'll be "treats?" i'm willing to hand feed him if it means he's not underweight. anything to keep him healthy. i did decrease the amount of wet food he was getting because it was being wasted, but i think that made it worse. maybe i'll give him more.  
 he does. it might be borderline obsessive grooming. if he's not sleeping or going crazy, then that's what he's doing. it gets worse when he has a uti though. i think the thickness of his fur makes it worse. neither of the other two ever have hairballs. frost has had maybe two, possibly three, very small ones throughout his life.  it's hard. ember is eating a different food than him and ash gets glucosamine in his food. it won't hurt frost to eat it at least as far as i'm aware, but i don't want ash missing out on it. i think ash usually eats the top of his food where the powder is though. i have increased the amount of wet food he's getting, but i'm not sure that it's helped much. we do always have different flavors of food, but i don't pay much attention to which i'm using and when. i do try not to use the same one continuously.  i might. i'm not sure how worried i should be. everything else seems fine and he doesn't seem to be suffering in any way. the vet wasn't worried which should be reassuring, but i don't trust easily and don't really know how reliable the vet is. i can't say we've had a problem with them yet.  
 you think it may be obsessive? that isn't good. does he cause bald spots or is it not that bad? i am not familiar with obsessive grooming sadly. maybe start a new thread?  i wonder if he has discomfort and grooms more?  at least the other two don't have hairball issues.  yes, that makes it more difficult sadly. ash does need his glucosamine.  yeah, vets are not always great. it is hard though in their defense. as long as he is acting normal and he isn't losing a lot of weight then i wouldn't worry too much. but running some tests might be wise (like thyroid, parasites, etc). it is always tricky. :/  
 i think if he did it much more it would be. it seems like just about every time i look at him he's grooming, particularly around his back end. but no bald spots as of yet which is why i haven't worried about it.  we know he grooms more when he has a uti. if it seems truly obsessive then it's usually a hint there's something more to it. i haven't seen any signs of discomfort though. he hasn't been playing too much with the toy lately, but it was just the other day he played with ember and frost. and his grooming has been a long term thing. it just seems that, of the three of them, he does it the most, and that's saying something since they all groom quite a bit.  there is that pro, but he has enough for all of them.  he definitely does. i can't let him go without that. fortunately, he has no problem eating it and i just pour it on top. i'm surprised though. i tried glucosamine with nothing else and it was awful. i'd think that would bother him more.  i'm sure it is hard. i know i couldn't do it. i'd love to run as many tests as possible, but at this point i think it would just be stressful for him (and me) and it would take from the money we could save for future problems. he did go to the vet though. i'm not exactly sure what they looked for, but we had them run blood tests. it was all fine.  
 good. grooming is a big positive. but some do get obsessive which can be negative. i wonder if the discomfort is causing him to groom since it could be soothing. especially since he is doing it by his back end.  it doesn't sound like you are worried about it. the fact you are aware is good.   i am glad he is playing with the others. that is great.  his hair is such that is is more hairball likely it sounds.   thank goodness because the glucosamine seems to help a lot.  i agree with you, at this point it doesn't seem necessary. i have a girl that is like him (thinner, doesn't always eat well) and her brother has a weight issue. go figure. but they are both healthy and happy. the key is to watch and if anything seems different then check it out. some cats are just different.  
 it doesn't sound worrisome. that is good.  it is really good to be observant. because small changes can suggest something wrong. of course, not always. but getting to know their habits etc is very helpful. i know what you mean by worrying, so do i. but i always remind myself to only worry about things that are problems and that i can do something about.  thick fluffy fear gets tangled and knotted etc. so it makes sense he grooms a lot (to avoid those issues).  yes, that is great. some cats can get so picky. i am glad ash eats it well.  that would be great. i am guessing he isn't burning off enough energy or as they get older they do tend to eat less in my experience. fingers crossed he keeps eating well.  
 it is troublesome when one wants to save the food for later. it's just another one of those situations that it would be really nice to be able to truly communicate with them and explain why they shouldn't do that. but alas, we're stuck trying to work around it. ash is the only one of the three at a healthy weight though, so he must be doing something right.  frost is a bit weird about food. it's perhaps one of the reasons i find his reluctance to eat so odd. he's a very food motivated cat. he loves treats. he was the only who figured out the treat dispenser we got (though ember might have gotten it once or twice) and he'd probably stand on his head for a treat if he knew how. and he isn't always picky about his food. sometimes he eats great, but then sometimes he's ridiculously picky. he also has little to no interest in human food. why he would choose a cat treat over human food, i don't know, but he does. sometimes he'll come sit and stare at me with ember just for the heck of it. when i offer him something, though, he'll sniff it for five minutes and turn away from it.  ember, on the other hand, is less enthusiastic about cat treats (but still enjoys them) and is obsessed with human food. ash, however, has little interest in either. he'll take a piece of bacon, maybe a bit of chicken, but he won't be found begging. you have to go to him and even then it's iffy. he does like cat treats, but it's not often he's enthusiastic about them. they all love their temptations though.  
 i know. but cats are good at knowing how to take care of themselves and their survival (eating) instinct is strong. it is good that ash is at a good weight. i find most cats (depending on how they were raised access to food etc) tend to eat too much and gain weight. food is a pleasure, like what it is to many humans (especially me).  frost sounds a lot like two of mine. one is very picky on her food but loves treats and human food. one begs always and never eats human food anymore (and she was good at eating her chicken outside). so i have a bit of frost in two of mine.  each has their own preferences. they sound a lot like mine (and many others). the good thing is you know them.  i think temptations are like chocolate cake.  
 frost and ember don't seem to help with proving that though. one is overweight and one is underweight. overeating i can kind of understand, but what leads a cat to undereating, i'm not sure. food has definitely become a pleasure to ember.  i would have thought frost would love human food from how much he loves treats. i've tried plenty of animal treats myself and i'd much rather human food. i don't know what makes them so appealing. but no, he rarely takes any human food even if he's sitting there staring at me like he wants it. every now and then he'll take a bite of chicken or something, but not often.   i've definitely become accustomed to their eating preferences. ash is less food motivated than the other two by far. he used to growl over his uti treats. he really liked the soft, chewy treats it seemed like. but then he stopped eating them altogether. he would sit there and lick them like a lollipop and then walk away. i eventually gave up.  ember, i've noticed, is not a sweets cat. she's sniffed my fruit, but will walk away from it. her brother loved sweets though. he had an obsession with watermelon. we figured that out when he got a really bad cold. he was practically skin and bones and, while the vet seemed unconcerned, we were desperate to get him to eat. we were giving him anything we could to get some food in him.  they're definitely something like that. though i can't say chocolate cake is my favorite. it's basically the only thing all three cats completely agree on. well, that and friskies salmon treats that i use for clipping claws. i give that to stella too since it's 100% salmon.  
 don't worry about it. i missed a day too and for no good reason other than i just didn't get on my laptop. well, when i finally did, my laptop updating for three hours.  they are. i'm surrounded right now. ember on my lap, frost on my arm kneading me, and ash on the next cushion over. stella is here too though a little separate. it's getting a bit warm actually.  it definitely is. i feel terrible that they have such a slow, miserable death. i couldn't imagine being so terrified in my last moments that it's actually what kills me. and then, of course, it's for no good reason other than their own entertainment.  i agree completely. though i wish coal was still around so i could see those little differences as well as the similarities. instead, i only know what little i learned from when he was a little kitten. i guess they both ended up being lap cats. he was basically born one and ember quickly adapted.   i could do better, but i'm trying to be healthier. i guess i never was as into sweets as many others, but i did like them.  yeah, they claimed to be 100% hand-flaked salmon or something like that. i wish they'd put more in a bag though.  
 my turn to apologize! i wanted to get on (needed to, really), but it just got so hectic and, by the time i had the chance, i didn't want to do anything that required thinking. i had to get my allergy shots so i didn't get home until 4:30. then ash had poop stuck in his fur, so i had to get that out and wash his back end. then ember was stressed. i don't know what to do with her. i seriously doubt i got even so much as a third of his body wet and even less soapy. but she acts like she's never seen him before. i'm not sure if it's better or worse than usual though. if she can't see him, then she's totally normal even if they're basically in the same room. her tail has been up and down constantly and she hasn't been hiding much, but that means she's around him more and so there's been a number of tense moments. i tried treats, i tried pettings, i tried holding her so she could watch him from up high. she would eat the treats and was within a foot of him, but he approached her a little too much and she ran. she let me hold her for a while, but then she jumped down. i woke up around midnight to some noises and it's still tense though not quite as bad.  apparently stella got my mom up twice after that to go outside and still ended up having diarrhea in the living room, so we got to clean that up this morning. when i came up, there was some more in the dining room, inches away from the puppy pad we put down. she's acting completely normal, but i'm a bit worried because i didn't feed her this morning so i've no idea what she could have had on her stomach. it was also almost completely water and a bit translucent. that might be too much detail though. sorry for that. i just don't know what to do because she seems totally fine. other than the fact that she's sleeping on my lap right now. she's not really a lap dog. more of a lay-as-close-as-possible dog. she does get on my lap something, but usually when she wants attention and rarely to sleep.  it is really wonderful. i enjoy every moment with them. frost is laying on me and stella.  yeah, i can't hold it against them. honestly, it's a bit reassuring that they don't hurt them. i love mice and rats and would love to have rats again. not sure if that'll be in their life time, but at least i know they aren't going to kill them.  it is interesting to see. i'm sure it's neat to get to know all the personalities of the ferals. they seem quite amazing though i, admittedly, have no personal experience.  i don't think it's ever too late, but i agree. the younger, the better. i know i need to be healthy now so i can be able to run a shelter later. that's probably my biggest motivation.   
 please never worry, no need to apologize.  wow, a lot was going on. ember probably just didn't like the change and ash having to get cleaned and then i am guessing you were already a little stressed and it got worse and she may have picked up on it. it is normal and it happens. it happens here as well. when things like this happen i tend to just let them decompress. so i tend to make over them, give them treats etc. don't worry, it happens all the time and i know you can solve it.  poor stella. something upset her stomach. that could be why the cats were different as well. cats can sense little changes. sometimes dogs pick things up from outside. or they eat something. just keep an eye on it and if it persists then a vet visit is a good thing. but is sounds like something just didn't agree with her. she might have gotten into the cat litter or ate something around the house. if she gets lethargic then i would take her in but if she is acting normal then it should pass and if it doesn't then i would get her checked out. poor thing. oh and don't worry, i have seen it all, nothing grosses me out anymore.  awwwwwww, that is sweet.   it is pretty amazing they are gentle to them. i forgot you had rats before.   it really is. amazing. they really do have personalities. it is cool.  you are right. it is always good to try no matter where you are in life. i am going to try.   good for you. i think that is a great motivator. running a shelter is hard so it will be good to be in good health.  
 i still think it's odd that it's only ash. the one who never does anything to her. frost, who hisses at her, gets no reaction. stella--who's energetic, pushy, and in-your-face--gets no reaction. it seems like her relationship with ash should at least be better than with stella who's new and still irritates ember on occasion. i would say it's possibly the confidence level, but i don't know about stella. she's definitely comfortable in her surroundings and around people, but she's still wary of the cats after they attacked her at the beginning and she's a bit of a coward around bowls, baskets, tables, chairs, doors, vacuums... can you really call a dog confident when they have that long of phobia list? i wish i could fix the problem though. as it is, i'd probably be better off keeping them separate for at least two days after ash gets a bath. i hate doing things like that, but it's the only way i could really prevent negative experiences and she's often too tense to accept anything to make it positive.  yeah, i'm guessing that's all it was. she's doing fine. i didn't consider it at first because i thought that if she had any problems it would be when she was put on the new food rather than when we went back to her usual. i will keep an eye on her though.  it really is. especially because no one taught her. she never had to learn the difference between prey and family; it was just there. maybe because she came after the rats. they were there first, their scent was there. i won't say neither of the cats ever attacked the rats, but blood was never drawn. they'd get poor candy pinned down on her back and bite at her neck. then she'd start squeaking and i'd come to her rescue. i think if they wanted to hurt her, though, they would have. and candy wandered the house with them everyday with nothing bad happening. the only one who didn't like the rats was the two pound yorkie who didn't like anyone other than my aunt. she was also toothless so she couldn't do much damage.  haha. happy to help. i don't have anyone i trust either. i leave them with my mom when i have to and for no longer than i need to. i'm struggling because we're going to go on vacation to where we're think about living. i know we can't rush it because we could spend the rest of our lives there, but i hate to leave them with anyone. i put so much time and effort into taking care of them. no one else (at least that i know) is going to want to do that. but i definitely don't want to get to the point that i can't take care of them. that's not something you can just come back from.  
 it happens. sometimes it is just certain personalities. most of the time they have some kind of history and it does depend on the levels of confidence and how they act (if they act like prey). it is hard to explain but i hope it makes some sense.  dogs are different and some cats get along better with others. again it is kind of individualistic and how their encounters have been and how they carry themselves etc. dogs and confidence are a little different than cats and confidence in my experience. dogs tend to be more accepting and a lot easier.  i think it would be best to try to keep them separated from each other after baths. it is very common for a cat to get a bath or go to the vet and come back and because they don't fully smell like themselves there is tension. cats don't like change and scent is such a big part of how they interact.  i am so glad she is doing well. i know, it is tricky. i always look for any change and there can be issues with a lag. but as long as she is better that is great.  i think you are right. the cats saw them as existing and it being "their" territory so they accepted. it is amazing their instinct didn't kick in and they didn't kill. rough play but they knew the limit. amazing.  so true, so well said. i know exactly what you are thinking on this topic. exactly.  
 you really think their relationship is love/hate? it actually sounds like ember really loves her and wants to play with her. slaps are not always from anger etc. slaps can be a form of play. but of course you see it whereas i just read about it.  that is good that ash is on the cat tree. i wonder if ember feels a little insecure regarding him because he is above her? i am glad she goes on the one in your room and looks out. looking out is a good motivator to get them up high. just keep up with what you are doing, you are doing great.  i am sorry to hear that. i hope your aunt gets better soon. about 9 years ago when we went through the financial crisis many people sadly had a lot of trouble and had to give up their animals. it is very sad. i lost my job and went through tough times as well but if we don't give up we can get through it and just do our best.  
 that is good.   that is interesting. you give her a feeling of security, safety it sounds like. that is good.   there are a lot of options for them to go up. it is funny, cats do seem to like things that are broken etc. not sure why. it is very good they both use them and go high.  
 lately i've realized ash actually purrs when i carry him around the house. i have to carry him out of the bathroom when i need to take a shower and today he got by me and went into the basement when i let the dog out. i had to go down there and carry him back up and i needed one hand to turn the light off so i was holding him with one arm. he didn't try to get away though and he started purring. i walked around the house a bit and he even kneaded my arm which wasn't very comfortable, but sweet nonetheless.  i would love to get cat shelving, but i don't think we're going to be doing that in this house. in my final home, i want to put some stuff on the walls and ceiling. we're not stay in this house very long though, and we need to save the money so we can move into a better home. they'll probably be stuck with their broken cat tree for a while longer too. so it's a good thing they like it.  
 i am sorry for the delayed response. i am dealing with some issues sadly.  that is so cute. that is such a great sign, purring. ash sounds a lot like one of my cats.   that makes sense. it is a good option at the right time. i think your cats are loving everything so i agree you have no need to change anything now.  
 no need to apologize. it happens. i think we're in a pretty good spot right now anyway, so no hurry.  ash really is a sweetie. he's a bit large (at least compared to the cats most people around here are used to) and often looks grumpy, so he can be intimidating, but he's just about the sweetest cat. it was really neat when i realized just how much he enjoyed being carried around.  yeah, i think they're fine. i don't know when i'll get around to it, but i'd really love to be able to having shelving and whatnot so that the cats could pretty much get from room to room without even having to touch the floor. i think it'll take care of a lot of problems that come up with multi-cat households since they'd have tons of territory and plenty of escape routes.  
 wow, that is really cute. i love to hear that she is getting along so well with stella. clinginess can be caused by a number of things sadly. can you think of anything? or is it just that she loves so much?  interesting. that isn't too big a difference. i just pictured frost as a big guy for some reason.  i am guessing they see it as "fun time". a change and it creates hiding spots etc. so time to play. and of course cats love to ambush another animal.  yes that is very common. here safe spot is your room, her home base. just keep working on her confidence etc and it will ease as time goes by. certain places are just hard places to solve (even when the other animals don't mean harm the perception sometimes is different sadly).  keep a close eye on him. it almost sounds territorial for some reason. he is saying "stay away this is mine". try to play with him around there and just give him some love and security there and feed him treats and see if that helps. it is always tricky to figure out the exact driver. you'll know the signs of a uti so i know he will be taken care of. i am glad he sounds like he is doing better.  poor thing. yes, the inverted sneeze can be discomforting. it could possibly cause illness if aggressive enough i guess. keep an eye on her, hopefully she will settle down and feel better. a lot of times they pick something up and work through it etc. or she just got so excited. it is just hard to know. just keep an eye on her and if it persists then a vet visit is a good thing. poor stella.   it is always something, isn't it? :/  
 none of her behavior was too far out of the norm other than rubbing on stella. she'll talk to her and roll over on her back trying to get some attention from the dog, but she otherwise avoids touching her other than to lay on her and that's usually more accidental than intention. i'm sure if it bothered her too much, she'd get up, but normally she'll lay on my lap and slide off onto the dog. it mostly just seemed... excessive. of course, ember wasn't getting a toy like she usually does, but she's smart enough i think she could figure out that she doesn't have to get the toy to get my attention. but there is the occasion where she just wants to be close.   she is eating dog food now though. frost does that, but today was the first day i've seen her do it and i caught her twice. frost must be rubbing off on her. she figured out she could get more food.  well, they're both bigger than we expected! i knew a lot less about cats then though. i've done more research lately.  i don't think it's as exciting as they make it out to be though. it's just a giant cloth. well, ash likes to chew on the corners of the lights too. but then it escalates. and it wasn't even when they were playing with the background. ash and frost were wrestling in the other room. something they do fairly often.  yeah, i'll keep working with her. at least i know that what issues we have now are easily resolved. she still scares easily, but she calms much quicker than she used to.  all right, will do. it's a pretty small space so i'm not sure how much playing can be done in there, but he's not much for chasing a toy anyway. he mostly just likes batting at it. he doesn't care much for the puppy pad though. ember likes it. i've seen her crawl under it.  she seems all right, but she's still not eating much. she takes her treats though perhaps not quite as enthusiastically. she's barely eating at all in the mornings (though frost and ember have no problem with that!) and picks out the wet food in the evenings. i'm not sure if we should be taking her to the vet when nothing else seems to be a problem. she's playing, she's enthusiastic, she's her usual self. she's just not eating well.  it is! if it's not one things, it's another.  
 thank you. i know the feeling............  that is so good. they can have a communication breakdown (if humans do all the time cats and dogs sure can as well). but it sounds like they work it out. and they can sense nuance for the most part though sometimes one of them has to escalate it to let them know. it sounds like they are all doing well, getting along. sure fast movements, different movements etc can cause a temporary issue but overall i think you have done a great job with them.  so true. they are each their own. unique personalities. i see it in mine all the time.  oh yes, i know she/they are in good hands.  cats are independent.  i think you are right, as something ages (human, cat, dog) they get set in their ways and decide "this is not for me" at times. i know i get like that!!  
 yeah, i'm happy with how they're all getting along. i wasn't entirely sure what to expect when i first brought stella in. i figured the boys would get over it and they have. i honestly didn't think ash would be the last to get used to her, especially after seeing how ember reacted to her. but they're getting along now and that's encouraging. ember has done even better than expected. i did have some hope that maybe, just maybe, they'd be able to form some sort of relationship because ember didn't really have someone other than me that she was really close to like the boys did. i had pretty much given up on that after a few months, but it seems like they did end up getting that relationship. it might not be a close friendship, but it's something.  they really are. i honestly feel bad for anyone who can't see that, in any species, they're all different. every individual.   i think it really is harder too. my sister is pretty much fluent in spanish after being in colombia for six months and i couldn't learn it in two years. my step mom has been in america for what? ten years? and her english is still a bit broken. so i do think it is an age thing. and, of course, cats are independent. they aren't trying to impress or please us, so they don't have that motivation.  
 i honestly don't think the dog even noticed ember bit her. i just saw the cat's mouth open kind of wide over stella's neck. it was really cute. stella is pretty much completely over her fear of the cats. ash slapped her pretty good when she ran by while we were playing, but she totally misinterpreted his message. ember took it worse than stella who just turned around and went right up to him and sniffed his face.  they are. to anyone who has only worked with dogs, then they might not seem so smart since they are quite slow compared to stella, but i know how cats are and i know they don't have the advantage of being young and a bit easier to influence. stella really is great. i'm teaching her to pick up her toys now. it took a bit of time for her to figure out what i wanted, but she figured it out and is now improving very quickly.  i forgot to mention we've had a couple more incidents of ash peeing outside the litter box, but he did finally go on the puppy pad. it seems way too inconsistent for a uti. usually he goes outside the box every day and he's not so picky on what he goes on. but it's just been maybe a couple times a week and it's quite a bit. it doesn't seem like he's struggling and there's no blood. i'm thinking it's just behavioral.  
 yeah, it's all been great. stella has really gained her confidence around them. ember is definitely very protective of her domain. i've noticed she seems to be getting up on things more. she's been jumping up on the toilet and the draws by the sink. neither are really high, but i never saw her get on them before. this morning she jumped up on the top of the curio cabinet. i had to lure her back down because i didn't want to leave with her up there. it's pretty easy for them to get up and down, but i didn't want her to jump straight down and hurt herself. it's high enough that she can touch the ceiling and she's not very graceful for a cat.  she is. she has her problems, but she's really great. sometimes i have to stop and remember just how wonderful she is. particularly on those really bad days where every little sound sets her off.   it's only been in the bathroom which is about as far from doors and windows as you can get. i haven't seen any signs of cats, but i know that's no guarantee. we do throw food out, but nothing particularly appealing to cats. mostly bread and vegetables. and it's always on a towel, but not every day there's a towel on the floor. i did get him and ember playing tonight. i tied their ribbon/string toy to a catnip mouse and dragged that around. they really enjoyed it. i doubt he's feeling very loved today though. i had to wash his backend. i did as little as possible and ember hasn't attacked him, but it has been a little tense.  
 well, i can tell there is fear there. it's what causes such a sudden change when she's in familiar territory that i don't know. or how to fix it.   he's smarter than most give him credit for. he was the first to figure out the treat dispenser. for a long time, he was the only one, but i think ember got it once or twice. ash seems to be doing the best with tricks which is somewhat surprising. of all of them, he's the least food motivated and the most antisocial. he doesn't do anything to please anyone other than himself and he's never shown so much interest in treats before. frost isn't far behind him though. i think ember knows she can get better food from me with less work, but she still participates. she just seems a little less eager.  fortunately i only have one like that.  it is really, truly amazing. i think it's wonderful to witness them overcome their fears and befriend those they were once terrified of. it seems like first impressions and fears tend to stick more with humans. they don't let go of grudges so easily, but animals can go from one end of the spectrum to the other; from enemies to best friends. it might take some time, but they get over it eventually and learn that they can, indeed, coexist.  
 well, maybe until they move you can try?  yes, mine too. that is so cool about ash. well done!! that also builds confidence, great in all ways.  yes, agreed!!   in all honestly, i prefer animals over humans. bad to say but true. sure there are many good humans but overall animals are better in my opinion. :/  
 i see your point. interesting. my one cat likes to give "eskimo kisses". i say to her "eskimo kisses" and she does it. of course she did before she knew what it is called. and my boy does "rollie pollie" and "flying cat" (where he is on his back and when i say that he stretches his hands out and his feet out like superman (but upside down). now i am trying high five. kinda fun.  i see your point. it is true, typing can be changed. but i bet your initial typed words are very good. better than you give yourself credit for. i think maybe your desire for perfection might be the deterrent. but no one is perfect and if they are they probably practiced over and over. it is good to strive for the best possible (and even perfection) as long as it doesn't become a negative. i honestly don't think you would ever humiliate yourself. and if anyone takes it that way then they are not worthy of your friendship. it is not how a person says something it is the honesty and sincerity of the words spoken. you have this amazing personality and brain, you have nothing to fear and from my vantage point you are something wonderful.   that is understandable. it is good that you choose the path you want. the main thing is that you follow whatever path makes you happy. but i want you to know that each path is open for you from my perspective knowing you for as long as i have. i totally know what you mean about not being able to respect someone that doesn't respect animals. as long as it is your choice and you know that you have a lot to offer others then i think it is fine.  interesting. one of my girls is very "handsy" (or "pawsy" as you point out). i should really start with her more than working on all of them. i didn't think about that. good point. let's see.   
 yep, the tricks they already did on their own are the easiest to teach. that's why ember is being taught to "sit pretty" since she refuses to lay down and you can only get her to sit once. that's basically just getting her to sit up on her hind legs. it's something she did before to get food so it wasn't hard to teach it to her, whereas frost has only done the trick a couple of times. neither he nor ash sit back on their haunches like she does. that's cute that your cats do a few tricks though. mine only do what they've been purposefully taught. well, ember knows how to act cute for food, but she doesn't need a command for that.  well, it's still better than my spoken words though i sometimes time too fast for my brain to keep up. or for my fingers for that matter. i type "and" as "adn" a lot. i think i push myself when it comes to vocabulary, spelling, grammar, etc. because i am a writer and i do want to do public speaking, so it means a lot to me. i want to do my best and then i want to improve my best. i could definitely humiliate myself, but it's not something that should stop me. it's not something i want to stop me.   i don't like confrontation, so i don't really want to put myself in a situation where i have to. i love animals and i respect them, so i want and need to defend them, but i don't like starting trouble either. but i should definitely be able to put myself out there more and not back away from the chance to make friends or even just acquaintances.   yeah, that's one of those tricks that's more about individual personality as well as timing. you can teach sit and lay down to almost any cat or dog because it's something they all do, but they don't all try to grab treats out of your hand. some animals just won't do something. for instance, stella refuses to roll over. i tried, but it was rare i could get past getting her to lay down. the second i'd try to get her to roll over, she'd freak out. it was something i just had to accept. who cares about roll over when she can do spin, high five(using a certain paw depending on which hand you put up), high ten(both paws), up up(stand on back legs), and so many more? and ember refuses to lay down. why? i couldn't tell you. i might try again some time, but sit pretty is more impressive anyway.  
 that is very interesting. i love that ember does that!! that sounds so cute. none of mine do that, i should see if i can get one of my girls to try it, she might be able to eventually.  i type "adn" all the time. or "teh" or many other words. you are not alone for sure. a friend of mine is an actress. she said the best acting she ever did was when she wasn't "acting" she was "feeling" the part. in order words, she didn't think about acting or walking etc she just felt it and let it come out. she said when you walk across a room do you think about putting your foot in front and moving your other leg etc or do you just do it. i thought that was very interesting. i just thought of that thinking about our conversation. just feel the words, try not to think about how they should come out etc. i don't know if that makes sense but i guess just feel it and say it and don't think about the process. i honestly don't think you will humiliate yourself and the more you do it the more confidence you will build and the better you will do. just like my actress friend.  i don't like confrontation either, i know what you mean. i think most people are like us. most people are pretty good. you are smart and i know oyu (i need to add i type oyu instead of you as well as you can see i just did) can tell the good from the bad. just choose the path you want but i hope you don't shy away from a path for no good reason.  exactly. i will take the others over roll over any day!! it is amazing. i agree "sit pretty" is more impressive!! it is interesting, isn't it?  it is funny, i just remembered that one of my girls loves to reach out when she wants love. i should really work with her on that. i never really thought about it in your way. that is helpful, thanks!!!  
 true wealth is not about money but about happiness and fulfillment in my opinion. i have met people with a lot of money that were very unhappy and i have met very poor people that were very content and happy. i think your intention for why you are considering going into it will lead you to wonderful wealth (the most important kind). you are so right, it will be stressful and hardwork and time consuming. there will be times of emotional ups and downs. but are considering it with your eyes open, knowing the challenges which is great. i know you will make the best and right choice whichever path you take.  hahahaha, we are very similar in many ways.   isn't that the way it is??? cats. it is hard for them to do that, i can't get mine to do that either so far.  i know, they can sound so pitiful. but i think that is not the intent. i know, i think the love is something that just can't be replaced with toys etc. i have one that is more like that then the others. i know what you are thinking. :/ she'll get over it in time i think. mine ebbs and flows a bit.   totally. you and ember have a really strong bond. it is really special so i think that is where a lot of it comes from. it is that love, that bond. if that makes sense. that is cute. just be careful that you don't associate hands with play. not so much for you but for others. i have a feral that loves to go underneath me when i squat down. they love that feeling of security. i have a bond with one of the cats like you and ember do. i think i know exactly what your relationship is with her. it is really a love. like a mom/kitten relationship. it is really interesting.  
 that and i intend on being an author and/or photographer for my own money. it won't be easy, but it'll be worth it. i'd like to be able to make a place where animals are not just living, but thriving. a place that, if need be, they can live out the rest of their lives and you don't have to pity them because they have everything they need and want. i'm not sure if that'll be possible, but i want to try.  she really is. and she does communicate. i can't say i've ever really had that in a cat either. all of them will meow when they want something or think they're getting something, but ember seems to just... want to talk. it's not always trying to get attention, but sometimes she'll talk to me without trying to get anything. i've never had a cat as vocal as a siamese though. i'd like to be able to say i could handle it, but i'm honestly not sure i could. maybe i'll get used to it with time.  well, i know their temperaments around other people pretty well. when my sister was younger, she'd follow them (especially ember) around the house trying to pet them. my room has always been off limits though. but knowing ember's shyness, i know she'll run before she fights. she's never shown aggression towards a human, even my sister. frost will let you do just about anything to him without ever laying a claw on you. ash is the only concern and i just have to make sure to warn people about the base of his tail and his stomach. even then, he doesn't usually hurt.  it is definitely special. whatever the reason, i'm glad i have it.  lol. being able to watch such adorable little bundles of fur is payment enough. ember's mother was very people friendly, so it wasn't hard getting her trust. i'm not sure if she knew what it was to not trust a human. it's funny though because, for as strong of a bond that we have now, my memories of ember has a kitten are rather faint. it's depressing, but true. i don't remember coal as well as i'd like either, but much better than ember. he took after his mother. he loved people and just wanted to lay on your lap. of course, i mostly remember when he got really ill. that had been terrifying.  by the way, i'm going to get the cats on a better wet cat food! it's hard because they get expensive, but i want to get them on something healthier. i'm not exactly sure what yet, but i have a couple of ideas. maybe eventually i can change their dry food, but we can't afford all that right now and i think changing both at one time would be a bit much anyway.  
 yeah. she has a pretty wide range of noises too. most of them aren't even really meows, but rather chirrups and trills. she makes a lot of these kind of humming noises. it's really quite amazing how many sounds she can make that all sound the similar and yet distinctly different.  and a silly reason to us isn't necessarily silly to them. like when ash gets a bath. it seems ridiculous to us to attack someone because that got cleaned, but she relies on that smell and it scares her. it is a little absurd that ash can't even get a third of his body wet, but that's the way it is.  i agree. i'm not much of a believer when it comes to fate and "meant to be," but ember was supposed to be my cat as much as i was meant to be her human. she's really taught me a lot and i'm not sure i would have learned those things without her. maybe eventually, but not so soon. i think she was an important step for me to take the path i want to take. she's shown me that not every animal is outgoing and friendly to everyone and that some animals need a little help, but isn't too much trouble for someone still inexperienced.  i am definitely asking and doing my research. i've been using pretty much every minute i can get to look things up which probably isn't such a good thing since there are other (pretty important) things to be done. but i'm obsessed now and i'm so grateful the people on this site are patient enough to answer my questions that i probably should have answered quite some time ago. the dry food is turning out to be harder than expected though. i thought the wet would be more difficult for me to decide on, but i'm mostly decided on that. the good dry food gets so expensive though! but then i have to remember that the dry food lasts quite a while and the wet food is going to add up pretty quickly.  
 oh, don't worry about it. i can only guess at how difficult tnr can be. it's been a little busy over hear too.  it really does. i love hearing all the different noises, especially hers. she doesn't meow as much (other than when i'm home all day), but all the other sounds are really interesting. there's so many different ways of communication with cats.  ember won't even get that close to him without attacking him.  i understand her fear (to an extent at least), but it definitely doesn't make it easy. they're going to need baths soon too. spring is here and my allergies are getting worse. they haven't been bathed in a while.  well, i'm far from selfless, but i agree. cats, and animals in general, have helped me realize there is so much more to this world than me, my life, and just humans. i think ember is a big part of the reason that i've developed so much respect for animals. she requires it. even more than many animals, she needs to be respected and understood or you risk her shutting down. to help her, i had to change myself. and i learned i respect them all.  it is very difficult. i thought i had finally decided on weruva as our main wet food, but they almost all have fish in them and i've heard that that's not good for a cat prone to utis. so now i think we're going to do american journey with the occasional weruva (there was one or two without fish) and tiki cat after dark. dry food is between american journey and wellness core. we got a bag of wellness, but i accidentally grabbed kitten food. not very smart on my part, but oh well. they've been eating it fine. not thrilled, but frost is eating better. i have realized they require rather little dry food. it's a bit shocking and i think i'm having some trouble accepting it because i am stuck thinking it'll be too expensive. we'll probably spend more on the wet though since i want to increase that.  so i'm very proud of ember. we have a family friend who's dog had passed and he recently got another one. he's brought her over twice. the first time he didn't put her down since she's not house broken yet, but ember stayed out. i thought she'd run and hide, but she didn't she even rubbed against his legs. the second time he did put her down and ember still didn't hide. she did slap at the puppy a couple of times and she wasn't happy, but it was a lot better than when we brought stella in. i am very impressed with ember and how far she's come. it isn't great that we have a random dog coming in, but the puppy really needs the socialization and, with how well ember did, it might be good for her too.  
 some of it good, some of it not so good. i finally got to repot some of my plants. it's either been too cold or too rainy. or both. but, of course, then i ran out of soil.  some more than others apparently. probably the weirdest part of the whole thing is that frost and ash are totally fine with it. neither act like they don't recognize the other and i know they don't like strange animals that much. so the contrast between them is really odd, but i guess they're just calm enough to realize that the scent is still there even if it is different, whereas ember just goes into defense at the slightest change.  it's hard not to love her. well, for me anyway. she might be difficult for others with less patience (and i'm not very patient) or don't want to take the time to understand her, but she really is a sweet, loving cat even if she is a bit demanding in the way she shows it. i have to be able to understand her or i wouldn't be able to live with her and, with that understanding, comes respect. she's a good cat and she deserves it.  yeah, i'm finally getting there. this bag actually has a zipper on it! i liked that especially because the boys and ember are on two different foods, so i couldn't just mix it in and be done with it. we have a lot of animal food in the pantry though. it's gotten a bit crowded. the one thing i don't like about wet food is that it can't sit out. it gets wasted so easily. well, i guess that's something i'll have to keep in mind with the wellness. i think it should be fine as long as they get enough wet food though. and as long as ash drinks enough. i'm considering american journey as dry too though. it's cheaper, but it doesn't seem like it sacrifices much nutrition.   it really was amazing. shortly after the dog was put down, ember had come over to me and rolled on her back wanting attention. it wasn't right by the dog, but it was still impressive. i'm really proud of how far she's come. though it might help that this dog is tiny. ember looks huge next to her!  
 so ember totally shut my laptop down in the middle of typing this. (right around the part i was talking about how great she was)  yeah, nothing too horrible. a bit of stress in the last few days, but that's nothing new. i just had a little extra.  it really does. i sure hope it was nothing that happened when she was young though! well, to be honest, i think we could have socialized her better. we've never been very social people, so we don't have people over often, and definitely not dogs. but i don't think that would have changed much even if we did. maybe a little. i wish i could get her even more secure than she is, but i know i have to be happy with the progress she's made. i hadn't expected her to come so far to be able to handle a strange dog in the house.  she really is. skittish and fearful, but she was a wonderful personality as long as you have a little patience. she shoved my arm from the keyboard as i was typing that. apparently she knows when i'm talking about her. i think i'm lucky to have her even if she does make life difficult sometimes.  i like the zipper though i don't know why. it's definitely convenient now, but we have containers we keep the food in. the wet food is definitely a pain, especially with frost not eating well. though, of course, someone always cleans his bowl out when i'm not looking so not much actually ends up wasted. we might go to even better food later when we know we can afford it. we should be getting more money soon which is why i wanted to switch, but i'm not sure just how much yet and i don't want to spend it all on animal food.  i am very proud of her. actually a little teary as i was reading your post and thinking about it. lol. i'm more emotional than i like to admit. i can't even express how happy i am to know she's come so far. i would never have expected any of them to be comfortable enough for that, let alone her. both of the boys were mostly indifferent which wasn't so surprising, but ember did much better than expecting. the puppy is coming back today. if ember had been frightened i wouldn't be so happy having the dog around so much, but i think it'll be pretty easy for her to get used to the puppy.= with how she did.  
 lol. fortunately my draft was saved. i love that about this site. it automatically saves what i'm typing so it's there if something happens and i don't have to retype the whole thing.  yeah, i could definitely learn how to handle it better. essential oils help though.  i'm pretty sure it is. not from her mother, but from her father. her mother was fearless. we only ever caught glimpses of the assumed father. but she is doing much better and i'm happy with her progress. i still hate to see her fearful though.  she is very loving. she requires a bit of patience, but it's hard to get mad at her and even harder to stay mad. even when she is making typing hard. she thinks you should always be petting her. well, most of the time. she likes her space sometimes. it's funny because she's the only one who really does that when i'm typing. frost will mess me up, but he does it walking across me to lay down on my other side, not actually trying to get attention.  yeah, but they really don't need the extra food! however, this may just be my imagination, but since mixing in these new foods, i haven't been catching them in each other's bowls as much. i can't guarantee that this is true though. maybe i'm just not paying much attention, but honestly the only one i've seen eating someone else's food is ash who still gets into frost's food, but even then it's only once, maybe twice. and i haven't seen frost eat ember's food despite the fact that he's still not eating much.  it is very hard to explain. it would be harder, i'm sure, to someone who doesn't understand what it's like to take this sort of journey and with a cat. but she means a lot to me and i'm so happy to see her come out of her shell a little more. though sometimes i wish i could hide her away and keep her for myself, it's wonderful that she's been coming out for people quicker and now trusting a strange dog at least to some extent.   the dog was back yesterday and things went even better. she's such a tiny little thing and she was very timid when she first came, but she's slowly getting more confident. apparently she was very sheltered in her last house. no cats, just a couple other dogs and one was her sibling. and apparently they didn't even have a tv. so she was scared of the cats and of stella at first, but she's getting more confident and starting to play. but the cats did even better than they did last time. i was sitting on the floor with the puppy on my lap when ash came over, rubbing on me and then flopped down and rolled on his back. then ember rolled on her back again and meowed at the dog like she does stella though she kept her distance. she did let the puppy pass maybe a foot or so away, but once she was closer than that ember spit a little and lurched up. ember followed her a bit too and went down the hall which made me a little nervous because 1. that's a tight space and 2. that's where ember's safe room is and she doesn't like being cut off from it. but then apparently frost startled the puppy and she raced backwards, right into ember! i thought for sure it would be a fight right then, but nothing happen. ember was trapped against the wall for a few seconds, but didn't do anything. there was only once that ember started lifting a paw the entire time and all i had to do was say her name and she put it back down.  
 yeah. the majority are toxic to cats in one way or another. but there's a lot of back and forth on it. some say peppermint is toxic, some use it as flea repellent. some say lavender is safe, some say it's not, and still more say it depends on the kind. i definitely worry too, but i wonder if i'm worrying too much about the wrong thing. everything should be done with caution, but are these oils worse than chemicals? i don't know. we use stuff without even thinking about the dangers and yet are terrified of something much simpler. it's confusing.  she was a very trusting cat. loved everyone who wasn't a cat. well, i don't know how she was with dogs. ember is definitely doing better than she was.  lol. i'm surprisingly cat-free. she's content on the cat tree in the sun for now. i'll be getting busy in a minute, but i'm sure she'll catch me later.   i do hope it's nothing, but i worry about him. he usually acts like he wants to eat until i put the bowl down. then he walks away. he goes back to it later. the problem is there's not usually much left by then because someone else has gotten to it. i'm going to try putting him up higher. he does seem to like to eat when the food has been picked up, but i'm not sure if it's not just a coincidence. or i might just shut him in a room by himself because i caught him at both of the other bowls. i just don't know where to put him. the storage room doesn't get any ac/heat, ember is in my room, the bathroom is just unsanitary and also no ac/heat though that wouldn't be as bad as the storage room. i'm not sure if my mom would let me feed him in her room.  i do agree, it's a lot about the humans and what the humans do. i honestly don't know what i did to my cats though. it seems like so many people, people who do love their cats, have so many problems. like that whole rebel teen phase people talk about. i had never heard of that until i got on this site. never dealt with it. and it seems like a bit much to say it's a coincidence when i have three cats. though ash does keep tearing the curtains down. and it's always in the middle of the night. but it might just be me. i break animals. my cousin handed me their "vicious" cat and he was the sweetest thing i've ever met. just laid in my arms and purred. though apparently he does have his moments. but i also got to hold two little chicks and they both just immediately curled up and fell asleep in my hands when they didn't do that for anyone else.  yes, they make sure they surprise me every now and then. and ember's behavior was most surprising of all. in a good way, of course. i'm very happy she's feeling more confident. i don't think they would hurt anyone either really. it would take quite a bit. well, other than ash. he's not afraid to let you know how he feels, but he's usually cautious in doing so too. ember is the only one who listens to me. it makes things much easier with her, but the other two often just ignore me.  
 it's ridiculous sometimes. but i'm trying to be careful with this. i'd like to think that using essential oils is better than chemicals, but who knows? i wish i didn't have to be so careful though. the oils really do help so it's a bit frustrating not being able to use them much, but i'll do anything for the cats of course.   midnight was definitely a very friendly cat, inside or out.  ember got on me and shoved her head into my heads for a couple of minutes. then she went off and tried to get the dog's attention. the dog did not appreciate it.  i'll keep trying. i think he'd benefit from free feeding, but i don't think ember would do well with it. maybe if i can get ember to a healthy weight i'll try, but i'm afraid she'd feel the need to eat it all in one go and make herself sick. i don't think she likes leaving food. sometimes she tries to bury it. i might lock him up though. that'll give him some time away from the others. he can't eat their food, they can't eat his, and maybe putting the bowl a little more out of the way will give him more time to eat before they get to it. i don't know yet. i did weigh him last night and it said he weighed 10.8lbs compared to his previous 9. i'm not sure if it's accurate though. i have to weigh myself and then weigh myself holding him and the scale will give a slightly different weight every time you get on it. and that's close to ash's weight who feels a lot heavier than him.  i'm not a very confident person so i'm actually a bit surprised i do so well with animals, but i guess they can sense more than just my nerves. i'm not always the most trusting because you never know what some animals have gone through, but i don't hold anything against them and i do love all animals. it was a bit funny with the chicks though. even the woman working there seemed a bit amazed that they just fell asleep.  lol. maybe. but ember is more well behaved than either of them. ash goes crazy at night and tears down the curtains, and frost is on the table and counters a lot. but they're all good cats compared to a lot of other cats.  
 cats do like to chew on things.   yeah, i think you would know. it doesn't sound like he is doing poorly. usually you can see before the hips if they are losing weight. yeah, i always try not to take territory away if i don't have to. as long as he is eating pretty well like now i think you are doing the right thing. his metabolism may have just slowed down. they do eat less as they get older and as long as they act normal and aren't losing weight or are at a normal weight then it usually is ok. just keep an eye on him.  it is cool.  i know.  it can be frustrating.   oh, i know. all we can do is our best. i try to cat proof things but there is always something. but as long as it isn't anything too bad then i don't worry too much. but i always worry i miss something. but they have a mind of their own and they are smart to wait for a time where they can't be seen............ oh well.  
 yeah and it's going to continue to be busy. at least for me it is! and it's hot. i don't like the heat.  it is quite amazing. actually, just earlier today frost manage to run in between my legs when i took a step so i nearly kicked and tripped over him and couldn't take another step until he moved.  oh, yeah. they all do fine for the most part. they're more likely to try to jump over your head than attack you. and i have seen ash consider jumping over my head. fortunately, i've been able to stop him before he does. really, bathing them in itself isn't so bad. it's what comes after that i dread. i really don't want to deal with ember attacking ash. but she's gotten better. i doubt it'll be totally fine, but maybe it at least won't last as long.  yeah, it's definitely a good habit to stay in so that way nothing will happen. i'm sure feral scratches would be pretty dangerous since they spend their time outside.  for once, i don't have that problem. it's too warm. even my laptop is a bit much as this point.  
 ridiculous cats. you'd think they'd learn. they're especially bad when it's time for them to eat. i don't know what makes them think that walking in front of me is going to make me move any faster. it doesn't work.   yeah, they've definitely thought about doing it more than a few times. but i don't have to worry about them scratching or biting. the hardest part is just that they're so squirmy and they're hard to hold onto when they're not wet and soapy. i do hope she continues to get better. i really don't like dealing with all the tension.  it is kind of gross. honestly, thinking about the cats walking in the litter boxes is kind of gross. i try not to think about it too much. i can only imagine what ferals could get into, not even considering the dirt.  well, it was very hot in here yesterday. at least to us. we've kept the house around 67 degrees f in here all winter and then all of a sudden it almost 80. it was way too sudden and way too hot. they haven't bothered me much yet today either though and it's not quite as warm.  
 fortunately, they don't headbutt when i put their food down. they all nicely go to where they're supposed to be once they know i'm handing out food, but when i go get the bowls and the food it's chaos.  yep, they don't usually do anything to hurt me. they're pretty conscious of their claws. i play with ash sometimes and i can just feel the tips of his claws. they squirm a lot though. ember was hard to hold onto especially because i was trying to be careful and gentle with her. i didn't want to scare her any more than i already had. of course, that didn't go over to well. i had to be a little rougher than i wanted to be.  that is very gross. i'm not sure i could ignore that. that's terrible though kind of funny at the same time. it almost makes me glad i don't have ferals though i'd still like to help them someday.  yeah, that's pretty much me. i adjust to the cold way better than i do the heat and we went from fifties to seventies to fifties to sixties, a few days of seventies, and then eighties. we got a little bit of everything, but none of the mild weather really lasted. it changed too suddenly.  ember was on my lap earlier. otherwise i would have typed this up earlier.  
 she gets pretty close. especially if she's gone a few days without getting any scraps. the longer she goes without, the more desperate she gets. i usually give her a few bites 2-3 times a week when i have something safe. just tiny bites to appease her.  it is tough. i ended up not bathing the boys this weekend. oops. i got busy. i'll do it eventually.  yeah, i have problems when i start petting them while they're on the cat tree because i can't stand there forever. it gets kind of uncomfortable. so i usually do a quick pet and leave before i can hear them purring. i also started giving them a couple of pats when i leave so that way they'd know i'm walking away and it's not sudden.  oh, i don't. actually, i can get cold any time of the year. even in the middle of summer. i freeze if i'm doing nothing and get drowsy. it sucks because i go to bed hot and sleep cold. and i have bad circulation in my hands and feet. but i'm fine with cold weather.  no one has been bothering me too much. i'm surprised since we came in real quick earlier, left, and then came back. i would have thought ember would be a bit more clingy, but she hasn't bothered me much.  
 it doesn't even take long before it's uncomfortable. i'm sure it feels like i get stuck there longer than i actually do. it never lasts long, but i definitely have mixed feelings when she leaves.  i wish my fingers stayed cold during the summer. i always find cold fingers when it's warm helps me manage the heat. they can get a bit chilled, but nothing like they do in the winter. they can get painful then.  well, i freeze when i sleep so it wouldn't really bother me if they did sleep with me during the summer. frost has done it a couple of times which was a bit odd, but it doesn't happen much in the warm weather. and it's already hot!  i have to admit, ash has been a bit frustrating lately. yesterday he was yowling quite a bit. several times throughout the day. and ember meowed probably close to half the day too, so, as you can imagine, there was a lot of meowing going on. and then ash decided he needed attention at 5:30 a.m. so he came into my room yowling and jumped up to headbutt me. this morning i caught him in frost's bowl three times. he doesn't even bother trying to hide it or anything. i moved him away and he went right back.   
 well, i thought our problems might have fixed themselves. we went one day with one minor issue and the next day without a problem at all. then it started going downhill again. most of the incidents aren't anything serious, but they occur rather frequently and we did have what might've been the worst fight yet. still very one sided, but ember didn't want to stop. normally she chases him and might try (and fail) to jump up on the cat tree after him, but then she gives up. not this time. she kept trying and almost got to him and i do admit i raised my voice a bit, but i was starting to get a bit panicky. she's never been so persistent and my mom had gone ahead of me so i couldn't get through. after that she backed off though.   today they were actually laying on the cat tree together, but we've also had a number of moments where it got tense. i don't even know what to think about those two. they started getting tense while i was trying to play with them and i put catnip down as well as sprayed some calming stuff. they did fine after that.   as far as ash's uti goes... i've no idea if he has it still or not. the day after peeing in my bathroom, he peed on a towel and my mom said she saw him getting a drink. however, i don't know if he's peed since going on the towel. with multiple cats and multiple boxes, it's hard to tell. he spends much of his time in the storage room and there's one box out there, not to mention he could go at any point throughout the night. i would think he would have gone on a towel again by now if he was still having problems, but at this point the only thing i can think of to do is lock him up by himself with a clean litter box. however, the only room i could put him in is my room and that would mean taking ember's safe room.  
 ash went to vet today. that was fun. he got an antibiotic injection and an anti-inflammatory injection, i think. he wasn't happy. he needed it though and fortunately ember didn't attack him when he came back. she was very tense for a little while.  ash had hissed at her today too. it was odd. i've been getting them in my room with a calming spray and catnip. i play with them and there's been some mixed results. sometimes they're fine, sometimes not so much. she wasn't even looking at him when he hissed though. of course, then she was tense.  he also mounted her today. it was rather odd. i had gotten up and saw them both on the cat tree together, but he was on top of her. he's never displayed this behavior since before he was neutered. she let him though. then he just flopped down on top of her and started grooming himself.  i managed to break up four cat fights yesterday before they even happened. when i brought ash in my room, ember lunged a little. i put my hand out and she stopped. she did it again shortly after with the same results. then they were fine and on my bed together when there was a loud noise outside. i couldn't even tell you who moved first and i've no idea how i reacted in time, but i managed to get in ember's path and stop her. i kept her there until she calmed down and then carried her past ash to the cat tree. a while later they were all surrounding me while i was eating a snack. no idea why. stella, frost, and ash were all on the couch around me and ember was on the floor. ash and ember got into a staring contest. ash broke. he took off running and ember was after him. i called her though and i had just gotten up when she diverted her path and went down the hall. i was very proud of her for that. i didn't think she'd actually listen, but she did. i praised her and gave her treats for that.  we're making some changes to try to help with utis. i got them to two wet meals a day, but i have to admit i'm having trouble with the amount. even three ounces looks like a lot of food for one meal. i'm guessing it's just because the wet is less calorie dense than the dry though. i don't know. but we're giving them filtered water and cutting down on dry food, including treats. i got purebites chicken treats that should be coming in the mail any day now. i also ordered some gel someone told me they used for their cat.   i also got composure treats for ember and stella. i want to calm stella down so maybe we can actually get somewhere in our training. it's been slow progress. and i want to get ember calmed down so she can realize no one is trying to hurt her and she can gain confidence. maybe they'll help when someone has to go to the vet or get a bath. definitely hoping they help ember when i have to bathe ash.  overall, it's still really back and forth with ember and ash. one moment they're good friends and the next she's chasing him through the house. it seems like just about every other night i lock her in my room with me. i know they can be friends though. often times they are. i mean, they actually have a good relationship as far as cats go. but i don't know why ember lashes out at him. always him and no one else.  
 don't worry about it. nothing has gotten out of hand. at least not too out of hand. we've had our fair share of issues, but mostly minor.  the antibiotic... i don't remember how she explained it, but it was supposed to help the uti. the anti-inflammatory was supposed to help him until the antibiotic completely took effect. he's done fine since then.   i always try to distract them when they get like that, but it can be somewhat difficult because i don't want to startle them and i want to be ready if she does chase. sometimes i'll just reach out towards her and she run off because she doesn't like to be touched when she gets into that state.  i have no clue what's going on with him. he's mounted her a few times and it's become clear that he does respond to her meowing. she meows wanting attention, he matches her meow (short, rapid meows that's not normal for him), and then tries to mount her. sometimes she runs, sometimes she doesn't. she never seems afraid of him though. he has, more recently, taken to biting her though. he never gets far enough to get her scruff, but has gotten a hold of her back. she's still unbothered by it though. once, she flopped down on her side and twisted around to lick him on the head. he lost his grip on her then and gave up. i created a thread about it, so there's more information on the individual attempts there, but it's happened a handful of times. he's also taken to shoving frost away from his food which is weird. they like to finish each other's food off, but it's uncommon for them to push each other away like that. testing his hormones was suggested. we called the vet. the vet called back. we missed the call. of course. she left a voicemail basically saying it was dominance, they don't leave anything behind that would produce hormones, and he's just trying to boss her around. i don't like that she won't even consider it being something other than just behavioral. there has to be something behind it. i mean, why now? after 6+ years of being neutered and 4 years of living with this cat? he has never mounted either of the cats since before his neuter. when we thought frost was a female and considered breeding them. even then, i think it only happened once or twice.  definitely almost fights. it's hard to explain, but i can see it in their body language. they're tense beforehand, during, and after. and they've never played like that. not hiding, but a lot of staring. and you can almost watch ash get more and more tense the longer ember stares at him. i don't really remember much about the incidents now though.   yeah, he's the only one. fortunately.   i'm hoping they help a little. i've used them a few times now, but it's hard to tell what's the treats doing and what's coincidence. stella has been doing a little better in the car, but not great.  i know there are cats that can get rough with play, but my group seems to have a very specific way of playing. very rarely does it involve chasing. and it's always quiet. they look mean with lashing tails and flattened ears, but no hissing or spitting or anything like that. and when ember chases ash, it always ends with him cowering somewhere and her staring him down after they get broken up. when they play, one cat lays on his/her back and the other looks for the best way of attack. there's a lot of rolling around and some lost fur, but i can pretty easily tell the difference. to someone else it might be hard, but it's almost like they put off a different energy. admittedly, ember has never hurt ash, but there's always some leftover tension between them.  sadly, it seems like most of their issues occur when i'm here. or perhaps it's both of us? i don't seem to have any issues with them when i'm alone, but there aren't any issues(that we know of) when it's just my mom either. it's kind of odd.  well, you don't have to push yourself to. i do think i can manage, but there are definitely some things that could be improved upon and your advice is very helpful. the situation could definitely be worse though.  
 it can definitely get stressful, especially when things start adding on top of each other.   the shots always seem to do the trick. and he takes them very well for such a crabby cat. funny that getting him groomed requires five people, but sticking him with a needle(two, actually) barely requires two.  yeah, i often find myself with ember staring ash down, ash considering running, and no toy within reach. when they get like that, i seem to instinctively put myself in the middle, but then i have to try to get a toy without setting them off. i feel like i should just always be carrying toys and treats with me. last night we had a bit of a moment. no idea why. ember brought me a toy so i was petting her and she led me into the living them. then all of a sudden i ended up with ash instead. she went around behind me and just started staring him down. i didn't even know until i saw ash getting tense. he almost ran and she almost chased, but ended up not. i got a string(their favorite toy) and got her playing. all was well after that.  i can't possibly think of why he would be trying to mate with her, but it honestly does seem more like a mating ritual than dominance at times. today she was meowing and he, of course, came running over. she just sort of laid down, but he got on her and bit her back. he doesn't even seem to be aiming for the scruff. he bites a bit behind her shoulders. then he just put on foot on her and started kneading her like she was a blanket. she dealt with it for a moment and twisted around to lick his head. then she took off running all of a sudden. it worried me a bit, but she was totally fine after that. she isn't avoiding him at all.  well, him trying to get extra food doesn't concern me too much. my biggest concern is that frost is finally eating and needs to put on some weight. ash doesn't need to be stealing food from him.  yeah, i always try to get them to break eye contact. the longer they stare, the more tense they get, and ash always ends up breaking down and running. she doesn't usually do anything as long as he holds still, but once he runs she's in attack mode. but i always try to break them up and then give treats. and i'll give them treats until they can be within a foot of each other. if she won't calm down though i will put her in my room for a few minutes. not long, but it helps calm her down. but there have been fewer problems lately. it's not perfect, but it's not happening every day either.  the first time he mounted her was actually a few hours before we took him to the vet to get the shots. and he's had them before. that's what they give him for his uti instead of us trying to force medicine down him. he's never had a problem with them before.  purebites treats seem to do the trick with easing tension. that string was rather useful last night too. they're all obsessed with those treats and it's been a long time since i've seen them play so much.   but if they really are trying to work out who's dominant cat, is there anything i can do? i always intervene in their "fights" because ash losing confidence just leads to even more fights, but that probably doesn't help them figure things out either. is there anything i can do to help them sort it out? i don't really care who's dominant as long as they can get along. honestly, despite being so controlling, i've never considered ember dominant. it was always more like she wants to keep things the same and keep things calm so she doesn't have to be afraid. the best defense is a good offense. fix the problems before they actually become problems. but i thought it stemmed more from her insecurities than any desire to be dominant. i do need to work on making more positive experiences between them though. i have to work out some sort of schedule. i work by routine or not at all. if it's not a set schedule that i can get into the habit of following, i'll forget or put it off.  that actually makes me feel a bit better. well, sort of. less crazy anyway. i don't know how to fix that though. give them more attention? i don't usually set aside time just for them, but they all know they can come and ask for attention. ember probably(definitely) gets the most because she's the most demanding. i would say ash gets the least because he's the least demanding. sometimes i'll pet him when he's on the cat tree, but not much since i don't like standing there and i'm pretty much stuck if he starts purring and he doesn't come around much either. but when he is around, ember backs off. she's never really fought to keep her place on the cat tree or with me or for the toy she was playing with. in that way, she lets herself get pushed around a lot.  i would definitely like to improve things. i think it'll get better when we're able to move and get into a bigger house and they can have more space, but who knows when that'll be. they have to wait a while longer. i will start working on some sort of schedule to get into to help them. i need to make sure i do training every day. that helps get them all close to each other without focusing on those around them. and i need to get them playing in my room again. and playing more in general to burn off some energy.  
 that is very interesting. they sound terrific and very convenient. i have to try them.  oh yes, you will get there. and it should be pretty good until then. it is good stella understands that a swat isn't too bad now. that is good. that they understand each other.  yep. :/  yes, at this point i agree. no need to stress her out for no real reason. did ash father anyone that you know of? i think it will pass, they will work it out but let's monitor.   try to keep an eye on them and watch (i know it is hard). the "ambushing" way of play is common. but it can be more than that for cats. it is just hard to know without seeing it.  they do get along well and the fact they rebound quickly tells me that everything is fine. of course, we always have to watch and make sure it doesn't slip down into something but i think they have trust and love between them and even though they have incidents they are really very minor. when two cats really have problems it is easy to see.  that is normal. ember sees you as her protector etc. it is common and normal that she acts differently and looks for that in your mom. don't feel bad, you aren't doing it to hurt her, it is something that is important. she does get through it without ill effect so i wouldn't worry. i have a cat that is similar and when i can't be here i know how hard it is on both of us but then everything is fine when we are reunited with no ill effect.  yeah, it is best to be careful. cats will always go where they shouldn't it seems!! so we just have to make it as safe as possible for them.  oh yes. it is good she is a people cat but i think she is more of a cat cat than you think. maybe not in a cuddle way but they definitely seem to have a bond.  wow, that is cool. isn't it fun to get surprised like that? she is very smart. i bet that was cute. very cool!!  
 i hope so too. some treats do have limits. let's hope the purebites didn't have a limit. i would guess it would have to be sustained to be a problem but it is best to listen to the limits.  she understands them and trusts them. that is normal to growl at times, just to let them know where the line is. they fit well together.  interesting. i was thinking that maybe the memory was coming back. i had a stray dog that i am sure fathered some dogs and years after he was neutered he did that as do some of the ferals sometimes even years after. but those guys i am sure fathered kittens as well. oh well, there goes that theory for ash.  i know. it is very difficult. just keep observing and trying to learn. i guess i have been around so many cats for so many years i just have a sense of it when i see it. it is hard to explain though. the key is always have intense it is and then how they act after. and play can go over the line at times then they tell the other one and then they reset. it is complicated. but i guess though it isn't perfect and we can improve it we are not in a bad place either. but we do need to keep building confidence, making positive associations, and trying to make every encounter as positive as possible.  yes, they do get along well. but yes, it is hard to see them almost get into fights. some cats are just more insecure generally. ember may just be and therefore needs that extra work and attention. yes, ash is a big part of it. and the way he acts will help ember. so the fact ash rebounds quickly is very good. and ember can't be that afraid of him because she would be more skittish etc around him especially when he gets a bit naughty with her.  oh, i know. i always feel badly about having to be away as well. but all we can do is our best and you are right, it is very good she has your mom to be with. that stability is very helpful since cats are creatures of habit. well, hopefully we will build her confidence and security so that when the time comes a stranger has to be with her she can handle it. and the fact you come back is very helpful to her understanding it is only temporary.  that is good that she went high. hahahaha, frost. we all have a frost like that.  yeah. yes, some cats do like be the only cat but they like their family as well. they can go either way. some have to be with other cats. yeah, i think it would be tough to add another one with ember. it is hard in general but ember would be especially difficult.  i can imagine!! that is terrific. she really was good!!! just wonderful!!  
 yeah, i don't like these new treats though. i'm paranoid because they say to wash your hands. but the treats are fairly large and i always give stella small pieces, so the limit isn't too bad.  they definitely get along better now than they used to! that first year was terrible. i thought i was going to have to rehome stella and i felt awful for her because her life had already been turned upside down. we took her in because we didn't want her to go through another huge change, especially when she was bonded with me. we never intended on having a small dog again.  it is odd. none of them have ever had kittens and ember never even went through a heat. now, her mom did. that was a lot of fun. a cat-aggressive cat in heat. i don't know how she had kittens in the first place. must have been one determined tom.  i'm definitely going to try to dedicate more time to them this week. however, i am going to be extremely busy at the end of the summer, so i'm not sure how i'm going to manage then. i'm hoping i get their confidence levels up and by then it'll be mostly maintaining them as well as trying to manage their weight. but i want to start some serious behavior training with stella too. it's hard to keep an eye on them though. a lot of times they're just out of sight. i'd probably have to follow them all day and even then they'd probably be fine until i wasn't paying attention.  yeah, she definitely doesn't seem really scared of him. they get along fine. my mom said they were all on the couch with her earlier and ash groomed ember. they do actually have a very good relationship as far as cats go. but ember just seems to take everything out on him. i'm glad he's so forgiving though. i couldn't imagine if he decided to hold a grudge or became terrified of her.  i hope she'll be okay when we have to have someone else watch her. i mean, we're going to try to get someone we know. they won't be a complete stranger, but not someone she knows well either. i sure hope she knows i'll always come back to her. i wouldn't leave her. she means far too much to me. i'll admit there was a time i thought it would be best to rehome her, but it's too late for that. even if i could handle it, i don't think she could. she's stuck with me for as long as she lives.  frost is definitely my troublemaker. he's the one getting on the counters, eating plants, chewing on plastic, eating any leaves that get dragged in, getting on a little shelf on my wall...  yeah and it kind of sucks. i mean, i hate thinking about the boys being gone, but it's going to happen some day. then ember will be the only one left and i've never had just one cat before. but i think she'll be too old to even think of introducing another cat at that point. she's gotten better though. i mean, she comes out when a friend of the family brings his dog over and she's just a puppy. she doesn't know not to bother the cats.   she was. i want to try to get her to do it again. it would be great if i could get her to do agility! help her lose weight too.  
 maybe i will. it's really kind of bothering me. i don't like using them because i don't want to touch anything and i usually give extra attention for doing good at a trick or after a training session. not to mention now that i'm doing agility, i have to be ability to adjust the height of the bar.  it was definitely difficult and we didn't really do it the way we were supposed to, but i think the way we did it worked in the end. probably should have shut stella up and just let the cats be free without her around, but stella was always right at my heels. i don't think she would have liked be locked away. at least it wasn't too much of a problem keeping her away from the cats. i couldn't imagine doing that process with a puppy or a dog that doesn't know basic commands. and the fact that she was always right next to me meant i didn't even usually need those commands.  yeah, ember is pretty much always wanting attention every time i get up. but then, she wants attention when i'm sitting a lot too. she hasn't been too bad lately though, especially for me to have been gone a little while. and there haven't been any fights lately. hopefully i didn't just jinx it. i am trying to play with her more often though. she doesn't play for very long periods of time. i'm lucky to get a few minutes out of her. but if i try when she was asleep and just got up, she won't play. she is getting two training sessions though. i'm not sure if that's good or bad. she does get a little exercise, but she also gets treats.  it is nice to see(or even at least know it happens). it's not something that never happens, but it doesn't happen often and especially not recently. they seem to be getting along now though. let's hope it lasts at least a while. maybe if i keep up on play and training they'll get the exercise and mental stimulation they need while maintaining that relationship.   i will try to remember that. i wish i had the perfect person to come and take care of them. we'd probably be better off with a professional, but at the same time that's only if we actually get a professional. i've heard of pet sitters who aren't all that great. we were thinking of asking my aunt. she's had cats and dogs, so she knows how to take care of them. she was also a groomer so that wouldn't be an issue though she didn't work with cats. but she doesn't play with her animals and i'm afraid she'll think all the work i put into taking care of them in ridiculous and unnecessary. i considered asking my friend as well, but she's often taking care of her sisters and she's also getting a puppy, so she doesn't really need the extra work. i also worry she'll forget to do something or go over at all because she can be a bit scatterbrained. but i do know she'd do what i told her to(and what not to do) and would put the time into playing with them. the problem with both of them is that ember has never come out for them. i think my aunt is a bit intimidating to animals and my friend has too much energy.  well i certainly hope so. she's my baby girl even though she isn't the youngest. (ember was giving me this really wide-eyed stare right around here. it was kind of intimidating. lol) i do think people underestimate cats and their ability to remember as well as to love.  hopefully very many years from now. i have to say, sometimes i do worry about the boys. what with ash getting arthritis so young, i'm afraid he'll just keep getting worse until he can't have a good quality of life anymore. and frost eating the things he shouldn't... but i try not to linger on those things and just do what i can.   she got a little lazy on going over the bar today. i think i did training sessions too close together. i need to make sure they're separated so she doesn't get bored.  
 i wouldn't worry too much but it is best to ask and be careful. i can't think of what it could be. unless they are extra cautious since the standards in animal food plants are not as a high of standard as human. yes, it is hard when you are using them and are doing other things. you definitely do not want to be touching stuff with it on your hands.  i think it worked really well in the end. it really is more art than science and it just depends on the animals. we try to have basics and general principles but there is always adjustment etc to those. you should be very proud of how you got them together.  many cats love attention especially from loved ones. for how long can be different but they love their love as i like to say. ember is like one of mine. pretty much loves love as much as possible. even a little play is good. yes, they don't always like it after sleeping. they are waking up. two is good. as long as you do what you think is best and she enjoys it is helpful.  i think it is wonderful and a great sign. happening once is a great sign. yes, just keep doing what you are doing. confidence, positive associations, etc. i think their relationship will grow. you may be very surprised how close they will get. if it doesn't that is fine but i am thinking they could get closer. that would be cool. but it will be on their terms, we can facilitate it but they will decide. it is in their paws.   yes, "professional" are not always professional. i think it is all about attitude and desire. wanting to do what is best for the people and the animals. it sounds like you have 2 good ideas. before hand you'll want to do some sessions to get them to come out for them and make a positive association. a cat can sense emotions so if someone means well the cat will pick up on it. the key is not act normal, calm and confident like everything is fine. and then that emotion feeds on itself. hard to explain but i think you know what i mean.   i am very confident she always will. that love you two have is special. hahahaha, i know what you mean. it is that look. i think people do too. cats are excellent at remembering things and the ability to love is off the charts. they don't always show it but at times it is so obvious. and i think they really show it when they are feeling love as well. the way they look, purr, melt into a person, etc. it really is something special. but i think a person has to be open and be in the right mindset to see and feel it. it is very special.  yes, i hope so too. i know, welcome to parenthood. it is hard not to worry. we always worry about our loved ones. but all we can do is do our best. life isn't always fair and there are no guarantees so we have to do our best and cherish every moment we have. it is the quality of time spent not only the time spent.  yep, that can happen. they are cats and laziness happens often. hahahahaha. i am sure she'll do well next time or the time after.  
 wouldn't it be great if they put it on the package? but that would just be too easy.  i do think it has to do with the tension a lot. sometimes ember slaps him when he headbutts her. that's usually around dinnertime and i think she gets a bit tense then. and ash headbutts the dog and then slaps her sometimes. i can always tell the dog is nervous, sometimes even jerking away from him. ember had the worst reaction to stella, but ash took the longest to accept her, so he still makes her a bit nervous.  the boys have proven that. they used to be so close when they were younger. they were more cat-cats than people-cats. not to say they weren't affectionate towards people though, but they did seem to prefer each other's company. now they don't interact much at all. sometimes they play and occasionally they'll curl up together and maybe groom each other, but it doesn't happen nearly as often. it's all right though. a little sad, but also kind of great since they became more affectionate towards me.   yeah, my friend means well and she's one of the only people who comes even close to me when it comes to loving and respecting animals. i know she'd be great to take care of stella and she'd take me seriously when it comes to what should and shouldn't be done. i think she's just a little much when it comes to the cats because she can be kind of energetic and she likes to hold them which they don't care for.  i think that subtleness is part of why some people just can't have cats. it really does require a certain kind of person to take care of a cat and takes an even more specific kind of person to really understand them. they definitely aren't like dogs when it comes to showing their emotions. and even when they do show they're love, it can be brushed off as something they benefit from. they come for attention because they like to be petted, they rub on you because they want your attention, and things like that, but, while i do believe that's in part true, i think those behaviors are clear signs of affection as well.   i'm probably going to have to look into those ways of helping ash get up high at some point. he loves being up there so much i'm not sure he'd be happy if he couldn't. it might seem like a small thing to someone else, but i see how much time he spends up there. though he has been sleeping in the dog's crate a lot lately.  it is really cute and i'm not even sure why. ember is just stepping over a bar. it's nothing huge. but i'm still so happy she decided to do it.  
 they do that though. it is fairly common. i am not sure if they do it to get a reaction, to play, etc. i think it is that rather than fear or to be mean etc. but it happens all the time.   that is interesting. that happens often for some reason. things do ebb and flow. at least they do play together.  that is really good. well, you can always ask her when the right time comes and tell her you understand if she thinks she can't do it. communication is really important so you both know where each other stand rather than assuming. and honesty is best. so if she honestly thinks she can handle it then great or if she honestly thinks she can't then that is good. knowing the truth is best. i am guessing things will work out with her. it sounds like she is a really good person. which is great. so as long as she is honest and let's you know either way then that will be helpful.  i think you are exactly right. on every point you make. i think we can learn so much from them.   true. i do have a dog like cat. it is pretty funny. so dog like. i think he sometimes forgets he is a cat. hahahahaha. yes, the generalization is pretty much accurate though. but there are rare exceptions as i can attest to. hahahahaha  yes!! always what isn't theirs. and of course, if you make them something for them of course they ignore it!!! that is what cats do!!! hahahahahaha actlike you don't want them there and they will use it. too silly.  awwwwwwww. sitting pretty. mine does that too. hard not to accept it because it is so cute too. of course, they have to rub and if they knock it down even better i think they think. hahahahaha. i wonder how that gene has stayed with them from generation to generation across cat dna. so funny!!! you describe one of mine.  
 it was quite wonderful having them all by me, even if it was a bit warm. all four of us crowded in one corner of our rather large couch. lol. frost didn't stick around too long though.   yeah, i'd definitely like to keep as much of their routine intact as possible. i'm not sure how well that'll go over, but i guess they'll manage one way or another. i don't tend on leaving them for long. maybe a week. i don't know how well stella will do. she has a bit of separation anxiety and has refused to eat before when we were separated.  that is funny. my dog loves cats, though i wouldn't say she acts like one. she's much pickier on the dogs she hangs out with than she is with cats or people.   oh, yes. humans are definitely guilty of that behavior too. i think it stands out more in cats. they don't really care to hide their preference of what isn't theirs.  it's a good thing they are cute, because they're brats too. it can be difficult with these treats though. i'm avoiding touching anything and then the boys get in the way and ember won't go over unless she knows there's a clear spot for her. it's really hard moving cats without your hands!  yeah, they've really been doing well. i honestly can't remember when we've gone so long without any incidents... it's been a while. even if they're small, there's usually some problem. but they've even been doing well during mealtime. ash always wants to rub on everything/everyone while i'm preparing their dinner and he usually ends up headbutting ember, but she's usually a bit tense in that time and, even if she doesn't outright attack, she often slaps him. but lately she hasn't done that. she still gets a little tense, but she just kind of looks at him weird.  
 those moments really are special. frost probably got too warm!! hahahaha, at least he was there for a little bit.   i think maintaining a routine is really important. they may not do everything but at least it helps a little. they do manage and the good news is you come back. so the more you are gone the more trusting they will be that you will return. separation anxiety is tricky but a week isn't too long. but it is tricky. having someone they like is very helpful so transitioning is important.  that is funny. stella. sometimes dogs are a bit picky with other dogs. too funny.  so true!!!  i agree. they can be in so much trouble or cause trouble but they are so cute it is hard to get upset. it is always like that, when you can't move them etc is the time they are in the way the most. never fails. i have no idea how they know................  that is great!!! wow, ash wants to own everything even ember!!! they seem to really be bonding (even though ember looks at him funny at times). she is probably like "yeah, i know you love me but i am hungry, let's just eat!!". i am so glad to hear that thee are doing well. you have done a great job.   
 i'm not positive. according to my aunt, she's only three years old, but i could have sworn she was older. if she is three, then she was less than a year old when my uncle left. he left in the fall and we took her in the spring/summer. she's been with us for two summers.   i do hope, but she's such a cowardly little dog and i do worry that the longer we wait the harder it'll be. it's bad enough it's gone on this long. but i will try.  oh, yeah. it was nothing bad. the worst was when they got in a slapping fight and i think that only seemed bad because ash didn't run. it was a fight, not a chase. but a very minor fight. and there haven't been any other issues. i'll get back to playing and training and hopefully there won't be any more issues. today was a bit off since i had to get my allergy shots as well as go to the doctor for another shot.  i'm surprised frost was acting up too. he's such a friendly, laidback cat. i don't know what's going on with him. i mean, i won't say he's really friendly with dogs, but not usually like this. i know this puppy is high energy and has no cat manners, but she wasn't even bothering him. when we brought stella in it was kind of a mix of curiosity and wariness. and he'll give her a slap if she's bothering him, but never has he acted like that. i am very proud of ember though. even with her slapping, she did wonderfully. the puppy needs to learn manners just as any kitten does and she is learning. and i'm not worried about ember using claws. she never has.  i'll do my best. i definitely won't be taking them to a shelter that i know isn't no-kill. i do worry though since it's summer and shelters are usually full of kittens during the summer. they might not appreciate me giving them more as well as a full-grown(i'm hoping full-grown) cat who isn't trusting.  i have actually gone to alley cat allies and signed up for a list of people in my area when i found jax(the feral that probably isn't a feral and i only saw once, but we bought food for him) and was planning on getting him tnred. i'll have to see if i can find that list and if any of them are near my dad. i was looking for our house, but my dad lives closer to the only big city around us and that's always where a lot of places are.   it really is a difficult situation to be in. if i had the money and the space, i'd probably take them--or at least the mom--and try to socialize them myself. i know i'm probably not the best option since i'm not experienced, but i would like that experience and they'd probably be a good start since they seem semi-feral rather than actually feral. it would be nice to see if ember could learn handle it as well. but that's not possible. i'll do what i can though.  
 hmmmm, i wonder who did that then. a cat? i think you have more knowledge than you think. dogs are a bit easier and less "formulaic". they tend to listen more etc.  yes, no doubt you are willing. agreed, getting a dog to help is the key.  that sounds promising if they are good to the animals. it sounds like they are protective (not adopting to anyone) and care (not all breeders are the same). as long as they treat the animals well, give them a chance, etc then it is worth the chance. it is a hard call but a good rescue and a chance are better than tnr in my opinion but there are a lot of caveats. it is such a challenge to know what is the best.  well, that is good. i would contact each one and see what they say. don't rule anyone out since they tend to want to do what is best for the cats. so they are usually very accommodating. it just depends.  absolutely. that is a big concern. and that is what happens so often. i think getting them (with the assistance of someone) trapped and then a place to do what is necessary medically that is best. a rescue might be able to work with that. alley cat allies people would more likely trap, spay/neuter, recuperate, release. that is a generalization but typical.  i know, but you are doing a lot already. some day hopefully you can but if we all do a little it is a big help in the overall situation. people who do this don't judge or anything. the key is just to do what we can and try to improve the situation.  we'll figure it out. i would contact the alley cat allies people and see what they say and keep the rescue open and communicate with them what you are hoping for.  
 i don't know. i've never seen the cats destroy their toys, but if the dog did it then it would usually be totally demolished. i'd hate to see the mess a mouse made completely of catnip could make!  maybe i do have the knowledge, but i'm not sure. i've never worked with a dog like this. i'm still figuring things out. and, in the end, dogs and cats are very different in many ways. you can't work with them the same way.   yeah, i'm thinking about emailing them anyway. i didn't read all the reviews, but i didn't see anything saying they were cruel to the animals. in fact, some of the people who said they were rude still said they took good care of the animals. it seems like there are problems with some of the staff, but not everyone involved. most people seem to agree that the shelter was created for a good purpose and at least started at good. and it seems likely these cats would be put into foster homes, so even if they weren't adopted out, at least they'd be in a loving house instead of on the streets. and i'm running out of time.  i think i'll start contacting a couple of people who are closer to the house. maybe they'll be willing to help if it's somewhere nearby. it would be great if i could, at the very least, find someone to let us use a trap and walk us through how to go about it. however, if i can't get them this weekend then i'll need someone who's willing to do it pretty much on their own.  i feel like this is difficult because these cats aren't social or feral. it would be easier if i knew i was working with ferals and could contact people/organizations who work with ferals or if they were friendly strays. at least i'd know what i'm working with and, if the mother was feral, i wouldn't feel as bad leaving her there. it's not the preferred situation, but at least it would be the life she was familiar with.  it doesn't feel like a lot. but maybe this will help. if i can figure out how to help these cats without spending money, then i'll have a better idea of what to do next time. i won't have to waste so much time trying to figure it out. i'll have a better idea who can do what.  i will. i just hope i get replies in time. i wish we had known about these cats earlier. i would have had more time to figure out what to do with them, how to trap them, and have the time to actually do it.  
 it is always detective work, it is never easy. yes, it is not good. thank goodness it wasn't seen this time.  you are so true, they are different. but they respond to love, focus, and security/confidence. i think you have all the skills necessary. i think you can adapt and see what works and what doesn't. there are no set rules for dogs in my opinion. more art than science for dogs. but i know you can do it, you'll intuitively know what to do.  i think that is a good plan. more information will help you feel better about what path you should take.  i would try all resources. let them make the decision if it is too far for them or too time consuming etc. the key is to find someone to help. most people i know that do this really go out of their way to help. i think you could be surprised what amazing people volunteer to help animals. not everyone can or will want to but all we need is 1 person.  well, feral is really a cat born on the streets in my opinion. so i think they qualify. with that said some are really skittish etc and some are able to be socialized. given how young the mother sounds and how she acts she is probably a good candidate for socializing if there is room and space for someone to help with that. the main thing is she is spayed. the kittens should be easy to socialize again if a person has the time and space to do it. kittens are easy. i have taken in older ferals and younger. there are big differences and a person needs some knowledge the more feral they are.  it is a lot. you care and are doing something about it. that is a lot. experience is always helpful.  well, all you can do is your best. and if someone takes over from you then it will work out. it all depends. hopefully someone can help out. or the rescue would want to take them. so there may be more time possibly and at least you have a few options right now. all you can do is your best. i'll keep my fingers crossed that it works out.  thank you for doing what you are doing for them and caring!!!  
 i've been researching her knee problem. it's called luxating patella, among other things. apparently it's pretty common in a lot of small breeds, especially pomeranians. when it pops out and back in on it's own with no pain and doesn't happen often it's a grade one. there's four "grades" or levels. stella's goes back in on it's own, but it definitely seems to hurt her. stella's seems to be grade one based on frequency and it's ability to go back on it's own, but the pain seems more grade two-three. however, it's happened about four or five times in three days. that's probably how often it's happened in the past two years or so and it's never happened so close together. i'm going to be putting her on supplements and probably getting her a knee brace.   it's definitely hard to know for sure, especially since i know cats in general are good at hiding. but these cats didn't really seem to care all that much about hiding, so it seems odd it's been so long since they've been seen. it doesn't quite match up with their history though that history is a short one.   that was kind of my thought. especially since there can be cats who look alike. i've hung out in the stray and feral forum and it seems like there are usually several black cats who are mistaken for one or two cats. so i will email someone. there was an organization that said they'd even feed ferals and i think they were the closest. i'll probably email them.  
 i do too. i keep forgetting to give her glucosamine though. it's always hard to get into a habit. her knee hasn't gone back out of place though, so at least there's that.  there are way too many scenarios. it's really quite sad that there's so many and that so many of them involve humans failing to do their part and take care of her.  i can imagine that would be difficult. i've never had look-alike cats, but my cousins had(have?) two black cats that look similar. i never could get them straightened out, even after one became an outdoor cat. they actually ended up with three black cats, but one was bigger with thicker and slightly longer fur.   yeah, the woman i emailed responded. she said she could give me numbers of people who could help, but i haven't gotten an email with the contact information yet. i do want to help these cats and i'm refusing to let myself back out despite the fact that i kind of want to. it became more complicated than i really intended and my anxiety is getting to me a little. i'm always very nervous talking to strangers and i hate talking on the phone whether it's a stranger or not. so, really, even the fact that i called the shelter when i was first trying to figure out what to do with the mom and kittens is pretty impressive. i normally avoid calling even family members. and even emailing a stranger was a bit difficult for me. but i would feel terrible knowing i walked away from this situation when i could do something about it and it's something i need to get over anyway.  
 i don't think it's the heat. she does get hot easily and she does make it difficult when she gets hot, but she's never simply stopped playing before. and play takes place mostly indoors where it's in the lower seventies. meanwhile, she's absolutely thrilled to go on a walk in ninety degree weather. i don't really know as far as the other dogs go. i don't think she's feeling bad since the knee isn't supposed to cause a problem when it's in place, but she could definitely know something is wrong. she does react differently based on the dog and the amount of exercise she gets. she tends to act up on walks more when it's not hot and she's not tired. and i do believe there are different kinds of energies and some energies just clash. that's why two high energy dogs could end up fighting even if they're dog friendly. but she had a problem with the calmest dog on the street. he is new. it's the first time i've seen him. the other two dogs at that house bark their heads off at us. this one was in the yard along and just watched us, but she reacted worse to him than the other two.  i'm at a loss as to what could have spooked him though. it was very dark in there, but i didn't hear anything before that. he had actually seemed somewhat calm immediately after which was why i picked ember up. but he apparently had me fooled which isn't something that happens often. i ended up leaving him be so i'm not really sure exactly how long it took. he spends a lot of time on that cat tree anyway. but he typically gets over things pretty quickly and it didn't last too long.  i have no clue. i was still in bed. it seems to be becoming a ritual to attack him at night when i'm going to bed and in the morning before i get up. everything seems quiet and peaceful and then all of a sudden there's claws on the floor and hissing/spitting. she went after him just a short while ago. again, i didn't see it. i had just gotten in bed. but she had her tail puffed up and was very tense. ash as on top of the box on the cat tree which i took as a good sign since he normally huddles in the back corner inside it when he's really frightened. i will admit i made the mistake of picking him up. i guess i'm too used to ember who will let me pick her up even when she's in attack mode. he didn't appreciate it, i felt claw tips and he protested. i put him back and he crawled into the box. i let him sniff me and i petted him and he seemed fine and relatively calm. and then he turned around an bit me. he bit me! he actually bit me.  i am being a bit dramatic though. it might have been the hardest he's every bitten me, but it still didn't come close to breaking skin. i got a nice little mark, but it didn't even hurt that bad. i was mostly just shocked. i will go ahead and take the blame for that though. even though he seemed fine and had no problem with me petted him two seconds before that, i'm sure picking him didn't help him feel better. he's not ember. he doesn't take comfort in me holding him and letting him look around. he was just attacked which i'm sure was for nothing he did, at least not intentionally. and he did have a turd stuck to him earlier which he kept trying to slap and bite me for trying to get it all out. i think that made his tail and hind legs sensitive too so he didn't enjoy having them brushed a little later.   there are a lot of things i'd like to do, but i'm willing to make sacrifices. helping animals is my purpose. i figured that out a while ago. i won't say i'm selfless(i'd do way more for animals than i would for people), but i do want to make a difference.   i didn't email them today... i'll do it tomorrow... probably. i had to do some running today though and got home to make dinner and take care of animals, so i didn't get on my computer until late.  well, at the very least i'll help make the neighborhood better. i can't do anything about the people who live there, but i can help the cats have a slightly easier life. my role in this is a small one, but it is important. if i don't say something then it's possible no one will ever know about the situation.  
 i think fear may play a part, but i don't think it's the whole issue. normally, outside of "her" territory she cowers in fear, but instead she raises her hackles when passing these dogs. it seems a little more like excitement and a tinge of aggression, whether fear based or not, rather than pure fear. and i'd rather not risk it, honestly. i don't want to reward that behavior and her think that's how she should react. and petting might work as a reward for some dogs, but it's nowhere near good enough of a reward for stella.  i honestly try not to think of the issues too often so i can avoid being stressed/frustrated. i mostly reserve thinking about it for when it happens and when telling you about it. and i wouldn't be worried about it if it only happened once it a while, but two+ times a day doesn't really seem to be "once in a while" to me. the only reason i'm not really worried about it is because they get over it so easily and i know they actually have a good relationship besides those issues.   i am going to be working on them in my room more, but i have to figure out just how to go about it. it doesn't seem like she's willing to have him in there. i guess i'm going to play with her alone in there and then bring ash in with treats and hopefully get her to be okay with him before trying to play. i'm probably going to have to work on them in my room every day. i always quit doing it once ember gets over his presence in there, but it always reverts back.  i could definitely see ember being the kind of cat who doesn't take well to not being able to have my attention whenever she wants. and she did bring me a lot of toys wednesday night and throughout the day thursday. she was bringing them closer to me than usually too.  (11-12) i have no idea who hissed or why. if ember hadn't reacted to it, i would have brushed it off as something i heard in my head or perhaps dreamed because there were no indications of any issues between the boys. they were in the exact same places they were in when i went to sleep. and i do understand the concern about rushing it and that carrying ash out probably wasn't the best, but i can't say i regret it. i was tired, slightly irritated at being woken up, and a bit frustrated with it all. i was, in no way, in the mindset to be working with cats. i don't see ash leaving on his own in that situation either. the way my room is set up, he couldn't have done so without walking past ember. even if he attempted to do so, he'd have to jump off the cat tree which could set ember off. ash doesn't come to his name unless he knows he's going to get something out of it and even then it's iffy. i don't think toys would have gotten anyone's attention with how tense they were. treats are the only things that consistently work with all of them, but i'd get the other two running to me before he ever even thought about coming. and it was the middle of the night, my mom was sleeping. i was trying to make minimal noise and couldn't exactly shake a container of treats to get his attention. and getting ember's focus is a lot easier said than. when she gets like that, she wants nothing to do with me. she won't let me touch. i could probably put a toy on her head and not even get a second's worth of focus from her. treats are the only thing that works and only until i stop giving them to her. then she goes back to staring him down. i was running low on treats too. it was, honestly, just a very bad situation.  (6) they were sort of behind the computer desk(the desk doesn't have any bulky sides to it with the only flat surfaces being the top and two open shelves on the side) going into the hall, so i couldn't see well. it looked like they just crossed paths. at least nothing dramatic happened prior to the that. i would have noticed any sudden movements or noises.  (7:40) i will try playing individually and maybe slowly introduce ash into play sessions in my room. i would have put more time into it, but honestly i didn't realize it had gotten so late. i went out to get some more catnip when i happened to look at the clock on the stove and realized it was time for them to eat. and hungry cats often make for crabby cats, so i doubt that was helping the situation.  (8) i will try that. lately i've been getting really frustrated with ash and his attempts to eat frost's food. i know that's not good. maybe a different approach will help. it's just irritating that he not only does it right in front of me, but will go right back immediately after. he's never been so pushy or persistent about this before. even ember isn't like that and she's the most food motivated one of them.  i was quite proud of ember for walking away from the situation. i didn't think she would. she was basically trapped between ash and the cabinets and had every reason to try to defend herself what with him hissing and growling at her like that.   (9) i'll certainly try. my room is just so small though, it's hard to do much of anything. and frost is usually so peaceful i don't really expect it from him. the slapping definitely wasn't playful and considering the attack happened only a moment after that, i'd say it wasn't either. if it was, then that was a very quick change of mood. i don't think even ember is capable of that.  (10:30) this wasn't really so much a concern as something i felt was worth noting, especially with all the other drama happening throughout the day. it was kind of odd, but not something i'm worried about. frost seems to be getting kind of sensitive though.   i'm hoping it is just stress. not that i like him being stressed, but going to the vet so he can get shots isn't fun for anyone. my biggest thing is that i hate the idea of him possibly being in pain for any period of time and i'll feel bad if we figure out this is a uti and we left it despite knowing something was wrong.  she's been smelling something lately, but i'd no clue what. it could be a cat. but it could also be that squirrel that's stealing the bird food. it's been on the porch a few times though and i don't think she's reacted that way to the smell of a squirrel. i'm leaning more towards cat, possibly dog. a neighbor did say he saw a dog running around the other day though it was only seen the one day. and stella didn't react territorially like i'd expect, so a cat seems like the most likely option, especially since my mom saw one not that long ago.  the burn wasn't bad. my mom seemed to think it was pretty bad, but i was laughing at my own stupidity pretty much immediately and it didn't end up blistering though my mom thought it would. the water was more of a problem to me since that's mostly what i drink and i needed to refill water bowls and most of our options for dinner required water to cook. i do think i'm at least relatively good at accepting things as they are. maybe not the best, but certainly not the worst. i tend to not waste time thinking about things i can't change.  i do try to look at the bright side, at least with them. i can be pessimistic, but i can't afford to be that when it comes to them. if i was, i wouldn't have them all because i wouldn't believe i'd be able to fix the problem. and, while i do question if keeping a third cat was the right option, going back to two isn't even a consideration right now.  i love that they're getting along so well too. at least i don't have to worry about that. stella does well with them. she could use a little more confidence, but other than that she's a pretty good dog to have around cats.  i'm pretty sure it's sort of an offering. like "look, i brought you this toy, so please give me attention now." and i think she's figuring out the closer she brings them, the more willing i am to give her attention. it's really adorable. i like seeing her carry the toys because they're so big for her mouth.   yeah, i'm going to keep looking. i don't know what i'm going to do if i can't find anyone. i feel like i've dedicated myself to do this and to not get it done means i failed. and i don't want to let these cats down, but if i can't find anyone i don't know what i'll do. my dad might be willing to help, but i'm not there often enough to really do much and he has to work.   i don't think most dogs are really cat-aggressive. i think it's usually that the dog doesn't know it's own strength or has a strong prey drive. but stella's proven to me that a prey drive can be controlled and eventually tapered down. she hardly even reacts to running rabbits anymore.  i don't think i've ever had any difficulty in understanding anything you've said. and i'll definitely work with them more. i'm not sure how, but i will. i'll make this work somehow. i'm starting school this week and my mom only has one good arm currently, so it's going to be a bit hectic, but i'll figure it out.   i'm confident(and i'm never confident) in saying that my house was once a one. before midnight ii came and had her kittens, there was never an issue between the boys. they never once hissed, growled, fought, or showed any signs of displeasure with each other in the three years that they were the only animals. they got along fantastically and still do. even after midnight came in, i don't think i'd say it went up much. she was highly cat aggressive, but it was mostly controlled by keeping them separate and she was very friendly to us. when we introduced the kittens to the boys, there wasn't much of a problem either. all this drama is really more of a recent thing. maybe within the last 2-3 years?  i'll manage one way or another. they mean too much to me to do anything else.  
 it is tricky to know. i have seen dogs behave in all sorts of ways. some only attack after being threatening. some attack as a good defense (if i am attacking then they need to be on the defensive). some just like to be boss and attack. it is so hard to know. i would try to reassure to see if it is more fear based. some dogs never get out of it. i would try different things and see what might work.  that is good. yes, the rebounding quickly is very good. but we do want to get them to get along a bit better. 1-2 times a day isn't great but i guess i have seen so much worse that it isn't too bad. of course, we don't want this to build and become a real problem.  i think that is a good idea. some cats are more territorial than others. the more secure she is in there and the more she associates him being in there with something positive and good the better it will be.  yes. some cats are definitely more in need of that. i have one like that that is more "needy". sometimes when cats don't exactly get accepted (usually the last one in) they have that trait.  (11-12) - yes, it is hard. all we can do is our best. usually the cat (ash in this case) would tend to avoid getting in that situation again. let's hope he is more cautious going forward so it doesn't happen again.  (6) - sounds like it wasn't too bad. it actually could have been a bit playful. cats like to paw at a cat above (and vice versa). at least it ended without issue.  (7:40) - that sounds like a good idea. yes, it happens. things get late, or rushed. and then if we run around it can get them amped up and then they are hungry. happens all the time.  (8) - yes they do this. they get into these moods and do things like this. it could be ash acting out. or it could be something innocent (like he is hungry). and cats do usually like what others have. making it positive and just trying to stay positive towards the cat is important. cats can take on our emotions so the more frustrated we become the more they can act out. i battle my two male ferals wanting to take the food of one of my occasional ferals. it never fails, they want what is his. a territorial/dominance thing in my case. i have to distract and pet and play with my ferals while the occasional one eats (cautiously).  yes!!! i am proud of ember so i can imagine how proud you are!! that is great and a big sign that things are moving in the right direction (albeit unevenly at times).   (9) - tight places can always be an issue. think about trying to set up escape routes. high, low, different directions. the more often they can see a route to avoid the more likely they will choose that.  (10:30) - yes. it is odd that frost is getting upset. i am wondering if it is an outside influence. that the tension/defensiveness level is higher. oftentimes it is a cat or other threat (or perceived) that causes anxiety and unease.  i know. it is hard to weight the pros and cons of doing etc. it is always tricky. we can solve the stress. the uti will need a vet. i think we will know soon if it is a uti. ugghhhhhh, it is never easy to make the best decision.  it s definitely something. your deduction is logical. an intact male definitely can cause issues.it could be another animal. so hard to know. but it could be a source of the issues.  well that is good. i am so glad it wasn't too bad. that is good to accept what can't be changed and do your best to deal with it. that is the best way to deal with it.  that is good. things tend to work out as well. we all have doubts about what we do. adding a cat, etc. but the main thing is we do our best which you are obviously doing.  agreed. and yes, she is a great dog to be around cats. it is also nice that ember has another friend.  yes, i agree.it is really cute. i can imagine it.  well keep digging around and she if someone can help. then when that is exhausted we'll figure out what might be next.  i agree. yes, it is probably more prey driven. some breeds are more instinctively more dangerous to cats though but that is a generalization (not all in those breeds are).  the best thing is try to be as calm and confident around them as possible (even when cooking or cleaning etc) and do what else you can do as time permits. try not to stress about it. even when things are busy and hectic just try to slow down a touch so that it seems more normal. doing that (even though it is not directly with the cats) could be helpful. cats take on our emotions so the more calm and confident we are the more they are.  that is great. that means you know how to achieve it. sure it is the cats but it also is the humans. you can improve this, i know it. just don't worry and we will get through this. we have a plan that does work and sure we may have to adjust but we will get there. they were doing well, there is this little uptick in unsettledness and we can get back to normal.   i know you will. i have no doubt about that. the cats are all good cats and you have the knowledge and desire. that is a recipe for success. don't worry, we will succeed.  
 when i think of reassurance i am more thinking of "don't worry, it's ok" rather than "good girl" type stuff. not sure if that makes sense. there is just a little bit of a difference in the way i do it but it is really hard to explain. have you tried a stern "no"? amazing she tried to get a pitbull. a lot of pit bulls are such sweeties and softies maybe that is the reason.  yes, i wonder if it is excess energy or they just keep going into each others space (competing for territory). try to see if there is any possible reason for them. anything common. place, time, etc.  yes, the key is to make it enjoyable, non-threatening, positive. making it a "non-event" and a positive encounter.  it is interesting. she has been closer to ash lately. that is why it is so strange and why i wonder if it is somewhat playful. my one feral loves the other but they get into it too. then they are eating together, rubbing on each other etc. but there is a bit of a power struggle as well.  (11-12) - it will be interesting to see what he decides to do. your theory seems right.  (6) - it is hard to know. and cats are different with different cats. the good news is they never really fought and hurt each other so they have chosen to not hurt each other so that is a positive.  (8) - just do your best. it could be. or it could be medical beginning (thyroid, etc). it is just hard to know. it could just be him wanting what isn't his (normal cat behavior). just do your best and let's see how he reacts.  agreed.  (9) - yeah, it can be tricky. areas like that tend to be issue areas where stuff happens. but it didn't seem to be too big of a problem before........  (10:30) - it is really just confidence building. eventually the animal moves on.  has he done it again? or has it been ok the last few days?  i am guessing it is a cat but it is hard to know. if there is marking going on you would be able to smell it.  a bigger house can help and sometimes it doesn't. it just really depends. i wouldn't worry, it can be done in studio apartments. we'll be able to handle it.  yes, it is very good.  that is a good plan. let's hope someone can help.  yes. agreed. interesting your cousins hunting dog was good with cats. very cool.  sounds good. just do your best.  it could be. that isn't too bad if you think it will help (and you find the plugin).  they really are. i will say a cat reflects the environment. so the humans are very important. i have seen great cats change for the worse and naughty cats turn nice depending on the humans. you and your mom are doing something right that they are good cats. ember is a sweetheart. it seems like you and she have a very special bond. very cool. worked out well.  
 that makes sense. some dogs do respond better than others. wow, that is a sweetheart (prince).   yep, those are the times that can be challenging. cats like to be up then and sometimes they like to have some "fun". those are times in my household where scurrying and chasing happen. i think it is somewhat driven by boredom and those are times they tend to like to hunt. i am actually less worried given those times because of the above. it is hard to explain but cats at those times like to get up to mischief after resting most of the day and some of the night.  sometimes when cats do become closer they are more willing to "tell" the other one when they are annoyed etc. in my experience, when cats are further away they are more cautious so stay out of each others space etc. but when they are closer they tend to get into each others spaces and bother each other easier. and when they know the other one will not hurt them they are more likely to swat or chase etc because they know the risk isn't that great as opposed to an unknown cat that might go to do harm. my two ferals (that at one time wanted to literally kill each other) do this all the time. one minute they are rubbing on each other the next pawing and getting aggressive then they settle down and get along again. they never hurt each other though sometimes it does seem awfully rough.  (8) - it could be because he loves the food so much. it could be a competitive thing as well. it is tough to know so we have to keep monitoring. it could be medical (thyroid) but there would be other symptoms. i think we should monitor and see what happens. i don't think right now that i would think it is medical so i don't think it is necessary to take him in. but let me know if you notice any issues.  yes, if it hasn't happened again it was probably stress. whew.  she hasn't said anything about any smell? it can be overlooked if it only happened a few times.  yes, but you would be amazed at how cats want to be near each other more often than not..................  wow, that is great!!!!!  hmmmmmm, i really wonder if ember wants to play with him. some cats play differently than others. the fact he walks to where she is (and doesn't fear her) tells me that he isn't too worried about her. if there was really tension he would really be fearful, avoiding her. he kind of just shakes it off. which is a very good sign.  i think you are exactly right in your analysis!! i am proud of them too. i wonder if ash likes to stir things up and get a rise out of ember. and ember is like "knock it off". the fact everything was fine after tells me it isn't anything to worry about. it very well might just be their "game". i have seen that before.  that is great. a cat would never expose their belly to a potential predator/threat. there is trust between them witnessed by their rolling around together.  that is a good question, i have no idea. it seems like it must not (at least in that timeframe) since they liked it.  ahhhhh, that would do it.  yes, i think doing what you are doing is great and probably more helpful than spending the money.   i sure think you did a lot right. things happen for a reason. ember needed you.  
 i can imagine. pit bulls have a bad reputation but it is unfair. all the pitbulls i have met and known have been so sweet. i had one and she was so sweet.  hahahaha, exactly. they are cats though, they probably wont listen. hahahahaha. it was probably the change in routine that caused her not to play this morning. cats are such creatures of habit. hmmmm, i wonder why she was weary of ash. maybe the same reason? change in routine?  that is great. i wonder if ember is starting to push back on ash's desire to be dominant (almost laying on her). but the fact they cuddle etc tells me there is no issue. sure there may be dustups at times but it happens. it is really cute to think of them so close now. pretty cool.  (8) - yes, it sounds like he doesn't have a uti. you would know him better but it doesn't sound like it to me. but keep an eye out for him. just do your best on trying to let frost eat. sometimes the more we try to prevent the more they want what they can't have (though that doesn't explain why he did it in the first place). it could also be a dominance issue. maybe ash is starting to get more forceful on his position? feeding can be difficult. just try to distract him if at all possible. or maybe feed frost somewhere else (if you can)?  then it probably isn't spraying. she would smell it. hmmmmmm, it could just be a passing animal. stella smelled something. maybe it isn't the driver of the issues though.  i hear you. i live in a small house also and with all the cat and dog stuff it is even smaller. but as someone once told me, if you have more space it will probably get filled up soon anyway. hahahahaha  that is a big positive and tells me that the issue is rather small. i have been in households where it is literally one wants to kill the other. and it is really a process. their reactions after a negative encounter always tells me a lot about the seriousness of the problem. your situation tells me that things will be fine. we can improve it though.  it is very impressive!! again, that tells me a lot about where we are with them.it may not be perfect but it is not bad.  great. just keep to a routine and try. she'll play at some point but it is ok if she chooses not to for a while as well. as long as they are enjoying themselves and relaxed then it should be fine.  ahhhhhhhhhhhh, ok, this makes more sense. maybe they are getting used to the cat? it is very good that ember did not react negatively. maybe ash struggles more? it could be a male? did your mom see if he had a big thick neck and head? usually if it is an intact male they would be marking but it could be a neutered male and still mark (just not as smelly).  
 yes, i agree.  it took a little bit of effort, but she got to playing today and when she did, she played quite a lot. not for very long periods of time, but she ran a lot. normally she crouches down and waits a moment before chasing, then crouches down again and waits, and repeats that. today there was a lot more running between crouching and waiting.  (8) hmm... not that i've noticed. definitely not avoiding anywhere. tails are kind of up and down for all of them. i notice that just walking around they usually have their tails down, but if they want something or you call them or really anything involved with people the tail goes up. he's a somewhat hesitant cat. for as laid back and curious as he is, you can see him deciding whether or not he wants to do something. if he walks over you, each step is slow and careful as though he expects to be shooed away. but that's all normal. however, ember has been picking up ash's behavior now. she hasn't been so pushy, but she sits right next frost and stares at him.  yeah. i can certainly understand not wanting to be the issue, but it seems better to accept it, fix it, and no longer be the cause rather than deny it. but i think the main issue is ignorance. even people who truly do care don't always know. there's so many things about animals that have been accepted as truth that people don't expect the variances. like cats being aloof and independent. or low maintenance.  i would have to hope he's not someone pet. there's way too many dogs in this neighborhood. one being off leashed and no fence though he's old and friendly. another has gotten out of the yard multiple times. and i know there's opossums. not to mention the road behind us is the busiest road in town. leaving a cat out at night like that is absurd.  i am thinking there's some leftover wariness of him though. it might have to do with ember's lack of play. she seemed alert. not really tense, but watchful. and she was watching ash. and ash has been rather sensitive too. he would not let me brush his back legs at all last night. he slapped(partial claws), hissed, and bit(gently) me and i gave up on it. i don't know if he was just being grouchy or if it actually hurt, but i don't think he's ever reacted that badly even before being put on glucosamine. when i fed them, he was very vocal whereas he usually only really meows towards the end of me preparing their meals and when i'm bringing him his bowl. rather angry sounding meows and he gave light slaps to anyone who passed him.  today things have been mostly fine, but not as good as the last couple of days. for some reason ember has suddenly lunged up at ash to slap at him and they got into a slapping fight a couple of times. the were all in my mom's room with him on the bed and ember on the floor last time. he apparently ended up growling at her and we had a fight/chase. it was rather minor. i heard claws on the floor, but no hissing or spitting. the only reason i assumed it was aggressive was because of the slapping and hissing prior. ember had a really poofy tail, but it slimmed down quickly and she was alright, albeit a little tense. ash, however, was growling at her. a few treats calmed things down for the most part, but it is a bit odd. ember has been getting over the fights quickly and hasn't been hissing or spitting lately, but ash is reacting the way he does after a particularly bad incident. i'm kind of wondering if ember isn't picking up something from ash though. with how sensitive he's been, maybe there's some trace of fear or he's being slightly territorial because of the cat, but it doesn't seem constant. he's fine for the most part.  i have been going back and forth on what to do about the cat. i don't want to feed him if he's going to cause trouble with my cats, but it seems like it would be easier to get him tnred if i did. i'd also kind of like to be able to get a feel for his habits and routines rather than just setting a trap and hoping. but if he moves on, i won't be able to get him tnred and he'll be adding to the cat population. i'm not sure if i could get him tnred right now though. i don't really have any way of transporting him.  
 she moves around fine for the most part, but she won't ever be able to handle a lot of activity. she's good at being calm, but she gets so excited and anxious so easily that i prefer keeping her worn down. there's no calming her down if someone comes over. she won't be doing agility either and i was considering getting/making an agility course at some point in time. she's started to play again, but she's still hesitant. i feel terrible for her. she doesn't deserve any of this.  oh, yes. ember had a blast with that catnip.  (8) i'll keep an eye on them, but i don't expect any issues. no one had a problem with ember being moved to my room. my biggest concern is me remembering to let him out once he's done eating.  yeah. hopefully a cat will be more aware than i am. that puppy terrified me! but it's still a lot of risks. it's not the best area to have cats loose.  i let him go without a brushing the first day, but i don't like doing that because they get knots so quickly and the fur on his back legs is so thick that it can be hard to tell if there's a knot back there. there's been more than once that he's gotten a knot even with me brushing.  it definitely seems like there would be a change in his playing and jumping. i have no idea what's going on with him. i'm going to give it a bit more time and make try to find a way of brushing that doesn't require moving his legs so much in case it really does hurt him.  yeah, the males definitely have it hard. they all do. i've only seen two cats and one was jax who my mom saw several times before that. the other one i think is semi-feral. he ran off when he saw me, but he stayed in sight and i saw bowls on the porch of the house he was by.  none of the cats so far have seemed very friendly, so it seems likely they're feral or abandoned for some time. possibly just wary outside, but it seems like most strays and pets are at least somewhat social. i will see what i can do. i'd definitely like to help.  
 i have no clue.  maybe. i don't really know what's up with them. frost, of course, is unfazed. the chasing doesn't really seem all that playful to me on either side, but on the other hand, there's not really much that makes it seem aggressive either. i'm almost positive it's not playful for ember, but ash is usually in another room so i can't say i'm getting every clue from his body language.  also, i had to clean ash's butt yesterday because of some poop getting stuck. i noticed a couple of white bumps back there on either side of his anus and had my mom look as well. i even checked the other two to make sure it wasn't normal and i just somehow missed it. nothing. today they seem much smaller, almost unnoticeable, but we're still thinking about getting him to the vet to get checked and get his back end shaved so we don't have to worry so much. then we'll just stay on top of it and keep it short.  it's definitely a tough situation. i think there are ups and downs to taming and rehoming ferals and simply leaving them be. if we could at least make it as safe as possible, then i don't think it would be so bad to have them around as wild animals. i mean, as sad as it is, all animals in the wild have their fair share of issues and we can't protect them all from everything. but there are just so many risks to ferals. i think giving them food and shelter is a pretty good compromise though. there's always risks, even to animals kept entirely indoors. at least there aren't quite as many that way.  well, the vent(or whatever it's called) was bent and the screen torn. my dad said they could actually hear it moving around, so it's fairly large and it definitely got in. just don't know if it's still there or if it moved on and hasn't come back.  oh, of course. i honestly don't even know how to set a trap. i definitely won't take any steps without advice, even if i have read multiple threads on trapping them. but if i do trap, it won't be immediately. my dad has to figure out if there is actually an animal in the attic and i have to find a way of transporting any cats i do catch.  
 yeah, at least he let you. fingers crossed it continues.  it is tough to know. at least it doesn't lead to any bad stuff and they get over it fast.  hmmmm. you might want to post on the cat health section and see what people say. i am sure someone has experienced it. vet visits are always good though on things like that. maybe that is the reason he didn't want to be brushed?  i think you have the situation exactly right. i couldn't have said it better.  it happens unfortunately. i don't know much about raccoons but i am guessing they come back unless it is sealed off. ughhhhh, not fun. and they can be nasty in a trap so please tell him to be very careful.  great. yes, there has to be a plan in place once a cat is trapped. setting a trap is easy, and preparing it is easy. there are a lot of people on here that will help. so when the time comes we are all here for you.  
 well, i tried getting this posted last night, but for some reason when i went back to add something, it started deleting what was already typed as i added more. it was weird.  from what i read, they definitely itch and may cause pain. that's why dogs scoot their butts across the carpet. we got him to the vet last night. the vet was going to be gone for the weekend(i still don't know how a vet can just leave for so long), so we had to go ahead and take him. she looked him over, gave him his rabies shot, expelled the anal glands which she didn't seem worried about and said it was normal, and she also gave us some medication that's used for travelling with animals. it's supposed to relax them/make them happy and is also a pain killer. we can use this for grooming him and whatnot to hopefully make it easier. i'm thinking we should have asked if it would be okay to use this on ember sometimes.  my mom also brought up that his tail is bent and was wondering if maybe it was a deformity and if there could also be other deformities that we can't see which could be contributing. the vet said it's completely possible and she does think he was born that way, but she didn't notice anything detrimental and, overall, he's in good shape.  when i bathed ash the other night, i was actually surprised at how well ember did. she wasn't happy of course, but there wasn't the usual attacks and whatnot. just a lot of tension, maybe a little slapping. i didn't even have to separate them. she made up for it yesterday though. i think it was actually worse than the other times we've brought ash home from the vet. lots of slapping, hissing, stalking... one full blown attack/chase during which she got a clump of fur off of him. i saw them running and she was just about on him. she did play though which was surprising. i didn't think she would. she even ran right past ash and was totally fine if treats were involved, but it was very bad at dinner time. i stopped to talk to my mom for a minute which was a mistake. ember got trapped in the hall and i heard her make some noises i'm not sure i've ever heard her make before. and in the kitchen was awful. i kept trying to talk as i made their dinner since that seems to keep her from attacking, but she still went after him several times, went after frost, frost went after her. i've never seen frost act so aggressively. ash pretty much just shook it all off though.  fortunately, things seemed to have calmed down today. and if there was anything else i was going to say, i don't remember what it was. oh well.  
 fortunately it doesn't affect him long, but i do feel bad that he has to come home to ember afterwards. she never appreciates the weird smells.  i am trying. it's back and forth. it's back and forth with all of them. she pretty much always plays at night, usually in the morning but not always, and i have yet to get her to accept a third play session. frost plays briefly. ash hasn't been playing much. on occasion he'll play with a toy on his own and he'll sometimes play if i dangle a toy in front of him, but he's not chasing it at all. i don't know what to do about that. i can barely get him to look at the toy until i'm wrapping it up. then he'll go for it. tonight that led to me getting my foot pricked with claws.  ember has been getting on my bookshelf more and more often. it's almost daily at this point. she seems happy up there. that's about as high as it gets considering it's probably close to seven feet tall. i tried getting her to climb around during play in the past, but never managed. nothing higher than my bed and ash usually gets there first. i can try again, but i honestly doubt i'll get a different result. lately i've been going back and forth between my room and the living room. my room to help keep tension down, but it's so small and tight that it's hard to really play, so i'm just trying to play in there a few times a week. i don't know where else to play. sometimes i walk through the house with the string toy, but i don't really play in the dining room because it's hardwood and i'm afraid they'll hurt themselves.  that's fine. you don't have to push yourself. we're managing well enough.  well, i actually just kept running out of time. i'm only on my computer for an hour or so a day and posting takes a bit of time. there was nothing serious, but certainly some issues. ash peed outside the litter box a few times. on a towel every time. it worried me, especially when he did it two days in a row, but it was a healthy amount and we honestly can't afford to keep taking animals to the vet. i wanted to know something was wrong. he didn't do it for a while after that, but did pee a third time. however, it was still a healthy amount with no sign of blood. i think it might have been territorial. it seems the ferals/semi-ferals/strays became a bit more active after it cooled down a bit. stella was sniffing quite fiercely on our walks a couple of days.  it was a day or two after that that we had some problems. ember started going after ash and it seems worse than ever. no injuries, but it lasted longer and was even louder than usual. once she got him cornered and took a few good clumps of fur off of him. i was a bit worried by the third day because it was happening once a day. every time was loud and lasted just a bit longer than they usually do. but after four or five days it seemed to calm down. it's continued to happen every now and then, but i don't think it's happened in two or three days now. knock on wood.   so ember made typed this very difficult. she somehow found a shortcut to italicize my words. then she deleted everything. everything. in the middle of the last paragraph. and then went to the home page. fortunately, this amazing, wonderful, fantastic site saved my draft and saved me from retyping everything.  i didn't knock on wood fast enough. ember left me and shortly after i heard hissing, spitting, etc. there was a pause and i thought that was it(i've mostly stopped worrying about the really short ones), but then it started up again. i rushed out to see ember trapped by the water bowl against the wall with ash in front of her. both were really low to the ground and growling at each other. it was weird. i've never seen that happen before. the only time he'll ever stand up for himself is when she just sort of half-heartedly slaps at him. i can't even say i know who started it this time because of that. she's never gotten trapped like that. i got them separated and picked her up. i wouldn't pick up any other cat in that state of mind, but i've never gotten more than tiny pricks from her claws. and she doesn't even try to get away. she lays in my arms and watches him. but once i set her down, she went down the hall and when she went back to the dining room, he was around the corner and she arched her back and hissed. i have her in my room for now just because it was so intense. i'll let her out in a few minutes.   
 that they do. my mom got them a new toy that's a ball that rolls on it's own. they basically went from interested, but cautious to bored with it in ten minutes. it is a bit too large though. i'll keep trying to get them to play though.  well, my biggest concern is that it is such a narrow shelf and it isn't anchored, so it certainly could fall. however, she's been up there several times and it hasn't even wobbled. the dreamcatchers have feathers dangling on them so that's a big cat attraction. i've always kept them out of reach though. she went for them a couple of times, but i just tapped her and said no. after doing that two or three times she left them be, but i'm not always there to tell her no.  i think ash's true safe spot is the top of the cat tree in the storage room, but the bathroom would probably his second spot. he's always liked it in there i don't know why. it doesn't have a vent so it's the coldest room in the winter and the hottest in the summer. definitely don't have to worry about whether or not he's getting up high. he spends most of his time at the top of a cat tree.  they have a cat tree in the dining room by the window. i have a bird feeder outside. the dog's kennel is in there too and ash likes laying in that sometimes. and when i say cornered, i mean that quite literally. here's where he got cornered:    well, it got turned around. but that's the cat tree in the dining room. it's in the corner of the dining room by the window. i don't remember if he had just got down or what, but he got stuck on the thing in the back that's sitting on the floor. you can see it behind the cat tree. we couldn't get it on right so it just sits there. i don't think he was able to get up quick enough due to the angle and the fact that she was already on top of him.  i'll keep trying. i play with them right before feeding them, but they really just want food.  
 it's pretty big. if i remember i'll get a picture of it. i'm not at home right now. it's kind of heavy too since it's made out of a hard plastic and has some electronics in it to make it move. i did see ember playing with a smaller, but still somewhat big, rubber ball this morning.   ember is a good listener. when she wants to be. it's surprising she'd give up a toy to listen to me.  i can't say i've noticed who uses the towels. probably both, but not certain. we normally grab a used towel and throw it on the floor so we can step out on it after a shower. i was trying to remember to pick the towel up afterwards, but it's not a habit yet.  it's possible, but i don't know how likely it is. he actually did really well with the people here. he came out and explored and didn't run when they got noisy. he didn't really seem stressed or anything. but it's definitely possible. my mom found the towel after that, but it could have been done earlier.  i will. honestly, the hardest part is getting ash to even look at it. i can put the toy on his head and he won't even budge. but i'll keep trying.  it didn't bother me too much when she got the occasional fly, but it got to the point she was getting anywhere from one to three in a day. she'd eat one and then there'd be another.  so today i cut their claws and i noticed ember seems to be missing one. it's just... not there. barely a stump. i've no idea when or how it happened and i feel kind of bad because it looks like it would have hurt a lot, but i never noticed any changes in behavior. i cut stella's quick and it bled a lot. from how low ember's was broke, it seems like she would have been bleeding all over the place and possibly limping. and there's dark spots at the base, but i'm not sure what it is. she was getting antsy because i was holding her too long so i couldn't really get a good look.  
 i have hope ember will play with it. it is good she played with another bigger ball. let's hope as it is good in so many ways.  i know exactly how it is. some listen better than others so it is good ember listens especially when it is important.  towels can be like litter so it could just be convenience. but it could be territorial. i would definitely try to pick it up so as to eliminate the opportunity. then we'll see if it happens. it is tricky to know what is going on as it could be a few things. but if the towel isn't there and he does something then we suspect it is something more important.   that is good he did well and came out. but it could be that he felt insecure and marked. it usually is that we don't know when it happened. but the fact someone was in the house makes me wonder if that was it. we'll keep monitoring. it really is detective work.  interesting..................... try all different ways, something might entice him. it usually does.  i know.  i have been there. flies can carry things but it is hard to not have them.  hmmmmmmmm. i am not an expert on that but it sounds like it would have hurt and she would have shown some sign. she didn't flinch at all when you touched it? i would look around or post on the health section and get some info to help understand the situation. poor ember. i know, i have accidentally cut the quick on a dog and wow it is bad.  
 that sounds so cute. they do love to pat it and then escalate it and get wilder. she may scoop it, they do that a lot. they know how to do what they want to do. it is pretty amazing and cute. when she does a somersault and kicks it that is pretty good. sounds like she is enjoying it. that is good.  i don't think any cat ever always listens. hahahaha, even once is good.   that makes sense. it doesn't seem like a uti. if he isn't acting differently around ember then it probably isn't her. then we look to other causes. ferals, people coming in the house, other animals, etc. there is always a reason though it is not always easy to know what it is. you can always put that "sticky paws" stuff on the ottoman but i like to always have an option (scratching post) next to it as well so they can't scent mark it.  how long were the towels there? i am guessing from before the people came in the house.  i would try to give ash some love and let him know you are still loving him. also, have your mom give ash some treats. just to reassure him that he is loved by both of you.  i don't think you have to. just find new ways to move the old toys.  that is good. yeah, it is tough to know how things like that happen.  
 i sure hope we can figure it out. i agree it seems territorial.  it figures they'd prefer what they can't have. or shouldn't have, i suppose.   i don't know. it would explain the incident that time, but it wouldn't explain the other times he did it. i think other cats is probably the most likely cause, but i'm not certain and i'm not sure if it's the cause every time.  i will. he got a bit of attention today. he actually came to me and i petted him while he was on the cat tree in the storage room a little.  
 i am doing that. so far he hasn't peed on anything other than towels, which is good. we can handle that.  i don't think so. honestly, i stress so easily and sometimes i don't even realize i'm that stressed until they start acting out. but i don't remember there being anything to be stressed about.   my routine has been shifting quite a bit lately, but i can't remember if it started before his first incident and i've tried to keep their routine the same. it most involves myself and the dog.  i will try to pay attention. i'm just not always good at keeping track of the little things or knowing what happened when.  we have been having some trouble today. ember has been going after ash today and it hasn't been once or twice. they're fairly small attacks, but it's happened i think six times and each incident has only gotten worse. the first couple i was able to stop before anything actually happened by saying ember's name. the third time i fed them treats within a foot of each other. after the fourth time i herded ember into my room and shut the door. then i petted her until she was able to stop focusing on the door and played with a ball a little. after the sixth time i took ash to my mom's room and we gave him plenty of attention to calm him down. he had started growling at ember that time.  
 yes, it is always difficult. just do your best and try to keep it as close as possible. cats love routines so the more routine things are the better it can be.  yes, it is tricky and even when we see it it can happen so fast then our minds don't always remember what happened if we did see it. it happens to me all the time.  it sounds like it. there is a lot of trust between them. i am guessing ash misinterprets ember's play and gets cautious and then acts like prey and then ember changes to hunt a bit and then ash goes "whoa, this is different and kind of scary". if we can get him to play or just hold his ground then it will be better. of course, they aren't really fighting so it isn't too bad but we always worry things can degrade so we don't want it to escalate.  yes, don't worry, it isn't urgent, just when it can happen. i think it will help settle them a bit.  what you did there was positive association. which is great. having them together and having them together safely. showing them that there is no threat. growling, hissing, is a way to communicate to say "hey don't mess with me" which is fine. ember seems to not totally understand it or care at times. yes, he just doesn't totally trust because of the past issues. but continuing to make those positive associations (whether with treats or with love and attention) it will help build their trust. any time they are near each other with no incident then it is a positive association. when you do this watch to see if they look away from each other, or turn their backs etc. as no one would really look away or be vulnerable if they feared being hurt.  it could be but the fact she doesn't react makes me wonder. if frost is being worrisome to ember it could be that ember is redirecting that to ash. and if he is being crabby then it could elevate the stress/unease in the house and cause the others to be more cautious. and it can feed on itself. it is a little hard to explain but stress can come from animals as well as humans. try making positive associations with frost and ember as well. i didn't realize frost was not getting along as well as i thought.  it is not uncommon for the newest cat to not be totally accepted depending on personality etc. it isn't like they can't live together but that there just isn't total acceptance. i have seen it many times. it isn't worrisome but draining energy through play is always good as well as making those positive associations like mentioned above. and of course time tends to be our friend in these situations as well.  don't worry, it is something we need to work on but it doesn't sound like it is an urgent existential issue. but we do want to ease the tensions.  let me know if you need clarification on what i am talking about. i am not sure i wrote that as clearly as needed.  
 i love routines too, but it seems life doesn't want me to have one. i keep having to add things and move things around.  i have found it to be quite difficult. even watching it play out, things often happen in a matter of seconds.  that seems about right. i wish i knew what started it all though. and now we have the added problem of the storage room door not staying open, so ash can't get in there in time. he gets stuck against that door.   i got lucky with that though. they aren't usually that open to being petted and being that close to each other. especially not ember. i was surprised she got over it so quickly, but it didn't last. no, ember doesn't seem to care much about growling or hissing. the good part of that is that she used to attack ash instantly if he growled, even if she wasn't so much as in the same room as him.   i always thought it was odd that she wouldn't react to frost's hisses and growls, but would go after ash for doing it even if it wasn't aimed at her. they, too, get along fairly often, but it's definitely worse. his crabbiness has been going on for some time now, but it's kind of come and gone in cycles. sometimes it would happen once or twice a day, sometimes one or twice a week. however, it's never been as bad as it has been lately.  it's just difficult because i want them to live happy, stress free lives. i stress easily and know what it's like to live with that. i don't want the same for them. i don't want them to have to feel fear or have to watch over their shoulder in their own home.  i think i understood everything just fine.  by the way, i keep forgetting to ask, when do you think i should worry about them being cold? our house has been everywhere from sixty degrees f to seventy degrees. it doesn't bother me too much, but they're ears and nose and feet get really cold. ember is laying on and next to me more than usual and she tolerates more from me. normally, i can barely move a centimeter without her taking off. now i pretty much have to actually get up before she leaves. she's very persistent and seems to always be looking for a way under the covers. but at least she comes to me for warmth. i worry about ash whose two favorite rooms are the coldest.  
 it's definitely hard to keep up with what's going on. even if i see it, my mind doesn't always process it and i have bad memory to begin with. it can certainly be difficult before they're fed too. tensions run a bit high then.   yeah, we got it propped open. i didn't realize it at first, but i saw him get stuck there and tried to open it, but it just closed again. my mom found out how to get the doors to stop squeaking, but it seemed to mess them up. mine opens itself up if it's not pretty much completely closed and i've no idea how it does it.  oh, for sure. and they get along very well as cats go. better than i get along with most people. in a way, i think that almost makes it more frustrating though. i know they can and do get along. but i've gotten somewhat used to it (i'm not sure if that's a good thing), so i'm a lot calmer. i don't usually jump up and go running when i hear them anymore. it doesn't seem to matter how fast i move, they're already separated by the time i get there.  that makes sense though i've always considered ember the untrusting one. there could certainly be some wariness left in ash, but the boys did really well with letting ember in, especially with being introduced to two kittens and with their vicious mother in the other room.   that could be it. i've always wondered why just one of them. of course, her mother was the opposite. she'd run right past ash to get to frost. but maybe they're reasons for fighting were different. midnight was fighting because she didn't trust them and wanted to protect herself and her babies, so she went after the bigger threat. i have a hard time picturing frost as a threat, but he's definitely the more confident one. whereas ember is going for the smaller threat.  i have no clue. maybe the cold? it seems to have faded a bit. i've only heard one hiss today. i don't know about him though. he's totally fine with ash, stella, and every human he comes across. it's just ember.  well, we've been keeping it in the mid to upper sixties. there's two dog beds in the living room and the dog kennel in the dining room which has a thick crochet blanket in it. there's a few blankets on the couch. i got a couple out specifically for them when i came home and it was sixty one degrees and ash and frost were cuddling in my spot. and we recently got this little pop-up bed that makes a bit of a cave. i've seen all of them in it and will probably get one or two more at some point in time. ash has been spending more time out of the storage room. and we have a space heater in the living room that we use when we're in there and a small plug-in heater in the bathroom that runs most of the evening. i've worried about ash's arthritis, but he's been letting me brush his legs, if a bit unwillingly. he doesn't go under blankets though and isn't much of a snuggler.  
 they really are. well, some humans do and it depends on the degree of the disagreement (though how healthy the relationship is can be debated). sometimes when a human is made at something they take it out on their loved ones because they are there or they know the other will not take it personal because they love each other etc. it really depends on the intent. and of course we sometimes say and do things in the heat of the moment we don't mean. forgiveness when deserved is a good thing. though i too am not always good at that. but cats are amazing and i am so glad they can love and trust and realize the true intent of those incidences.  agreed. hahahaha, yes, it does spoil us with the fast responses.   hahahaha, agreed!! or when they walk all over you in the middle of the night and can't get back to sleep. or ........................ but you are so right, the love is strong and really special.  is it? how come it is hard to get inside?  that you see. sometimes cats act differently when the parent is around and when they are not. and they go in phases were they drift apart and then get closer. mine are really close since i got back but before they were more apart. sometimes when they feel less secure with their parent they get more clingy to each other. it is hard to always know and it is complex but there are sometimes reasons and the more secure they feel i think the less they need each other (or warm).  yes, cats learn from others. mine (the brother and sister) have drifted apart and gotten closer multiple times. lately they have been very close (she was just grooming him) but a year ago they were distant. it happens. ash redirected his aggression. it happens but often times they take it out on the one they don't fear so it could be a positive....................... i am glad it wasn't worse too!!!  
 well, the disagreement would have to be pretty severe for it to come done to a fight (i hope) with humans whereas cats can attack a bit quicker, but even with just an argument people oftentimes hold a grudge. people don't usually fight and then go back to being best of friends twenty minutes later, sometimes sooner. cats really are quite good at forgiving each other.   yes, then too. which has been happening more often with ember. she barely spends more than five minutes off my bed at night until 5:30a.m. anymore and sometimes she walks over my side, kneading and purring. she's also been on the stove more! i've seen her up there three times in two days and that's not something she usually does. if she gets up there, it's because there's food up there. but there wasn't any food up there.  well, there's not much to get inside of. the top of it droops really far back so half the base is exposed. it's also a bit thick and i'm not sure if they want to move it to get under it. like ember loves being under the covers, but she actually prefers to not have them physically on her. her favorite spot is under my knees when i have my knees drawn up where the blanket isn't laying on her. so she probably wouldn't want to have the heavier top of the bed on her.  i've definitely watched them all evolve over time, but the timing seems a bit much to be a coincidence. it wasn't that long ago ash was laying on top of ember. and ember loves her warmth. she comes to me first, yes, but it was usually when i got home that i'd find them curled up together in my bed. they seem to be in a good place right now though and i'd be happy if it stayed that way. i just worry those subtle signs mean that their peace is dangling by a thread and it won't take much to break it.  i guess that's one way to look at it, but she was pretty scary in the moment. you could tell she was ready to fight if she felt she needed to. so far that's been the only real issue. today she did suddenly arch her back when ash was walking in her direction and she slapped at him when he jumped up on a shelf right next to her, but it was minor. it's still kind of weird seeing the transition from calm to tense. it's not like ash did anything, but something set that trigger off.  
 cats are really good and i think really good at knowing the intent of the disagreement and like you said forgiving. i see it all the time. i am so glad they are.  yep, so familiar. the stove is not good.  i wonder why she is going up there? you may want to consider getting one of those air deterrent things. they puff some air and scare the cat (and it is harmless) and the cats usually learn to stay away.  ahhhhhh, i understand. yeah, mine don't mind heavy blankets etc on them. actually two of them seem to like the heavier the better. they like that pressure. the other cats oftentimes lay on the other one. it is crazy.  i think it is just normal ups and downs. it happens. the fact ember let him lay on her is a big tell. i wouldn't worry too much, it sounds like they have that fundamental love and bond. there are always ups and downs.  yes, it can look scary. and if there is real fear of being hurt it can escalate because it is an existential threat (or perceived to be - rightly or wrongly). cats have survived this long because they will fight to survive. but as long as the threat is not that severe it shouldn't escalate. sure it might sound bad and might look bad but rarely does it end in blood and if it does it usually is by accident (which can happen). because there is that fundamental trust and love.   now the hunching is communication. now i have seen cats hunch when they wanted to play and i have seen them hunch to deter. and a swat can be both as well. the tell is usually how the other cat responds (or doesn't). that tells us what the other cat thought of it. and then the response of the cat that did it. it is hard to know the intent without knowing the cats and even knowing them can be difficult but seeing how it progresses tells us a lot. the fact ash didn't attack her and the fact she didn't attack him tells me it was either a warning (don't mess with me) or play. and if ash didn't cower or hide etc then ash took it as no threat. i actually take that as a positive. if there was a real problem any little thing would lead to a big fight and this surely would have if there was a real problem. it is hard to explain since it is more art than science but hopefully that makes sense.  
 they are smart. sometimes i wonder if it's a good thing. it did work the best. we had tried everything short of tape which my mom considered, but i refuse. i wouldn't do anything to hurt them and the boys have long tufts of fur on the bottom of their paws. but ember scares pretty easily. i can't yell at another cat across the house without her taking off.   that's certainly possible. sometimes she lays next to me with her head out of the covers. and she'll go under and back out several times before getting comfortable. it's a pain until she settles down, but i always enjoy having her with me.  i don't think she's out for blood, but she might not mind it if she causes a little pain to get the message across. i don't think she's ever actually hurt him though. just scares him.  yeah, i don't think it's usually playful. i think ember usually means it as a warning, but warning him about what i don't know. they're so sensitive i just can't figure out what's the common denominator is though.   my cats tend to look aggressive with narrowed eyes, flattened ears, and a lashing tail, but it's very different. they don't act aggressive at all. rather, it's more of a standoff as they size each other up and look for the best opening, but don't actually do anything. i have seem them box a couple of times though and that was pretty entertaining.  
 too funny, they liked it? oh my.  yes, cats can hit hard. when a person can hear it (like i have) it is like "wow, that was hard".  it can be just a look or the way they walk and of course it depends on their history. with ember and ash it very well could be redirected aggression because of frost intimidating ember (at times). oftentimes cats will redirect aggression on the ones they trust most. cats are unique but a lot of times it does make sense but sometimes it just doesn't.  oh i know. sometimes i have to stop their play as they get too wild and i too worry about them getting hurt. but you are right, they can bounce into something and keep on going. they bodies must be pretty supple that they can take those bumps and be ok.  
 well, i never saw them on it, but it would always be a mess when i got home. sometimes it would be on the floor. but it still happened every day.  oh yeah. i've heard some good thumps. it's pretty impressive.  cats sure can be difficult. i wish i knew what started frost's hissing. we always thought ash was going to be the crabby old man, but they seem to be switching places.  i'm surprised frost didn't get a concussion when he ran into the tv stand. i mean, he was running. i heard him make contact. he tried to dive under it without slowing down. it didn't work. but they've definitely hit the walls pretty hard a few times when they were playing together.  oh, ember got her first turd stuck in her fur. i didn't even know that was possible. it was hard by the time i noticed it, but it looked normal so i don't know what caused it to stick. she was acting weird and i thought it was going to be her anal glands, but nope. much easier fix.  also, i'm not entirely sure what just happened. as i was typing this i heard a hiss and a little bit of running. definitely ember going after ash, but not serious. other than that one hiss, there wasn't any other noise. i saw ember start coming out of the storage room and then all of a sudden she took of into the kitchen and stood there sideways with her back arched. i realized ash was on the other side of her, but i'm not sure if he ran at her when she was leaving or if he thought she was gone and decide to go running like a weirdo. there was a standoff, but i wasn't sure if i should intervene or not. i feel like it could be best for them to try to figure it out on their own, but i don't want the situation to escalate. but it never got past that. ember still seems a little tense, but nothing else. it seems like maybe ash isn't backing down quite as much?  
 maybe, but it kept happening. you'd think they'd either stop doing it or get used to it.   the problem with frost is none of the reasons really make sense. he's been healthy, no signs of pain or anything. he lets me brush him and basically do whatever i want. he's friendly and has never shown signs of insecurity, nor has he been given reason to be insecure. neither of the other two have actively aggressively towards him other than a few small hisses from ash.   well the boys get it, especially ash. it happens fairly often. but it's never happened to ember. her fur is short, so there's not really much for it to stick to.   i would say ash is definitely not backing down anymore. the other night i heard hissing, but didn't worry too much. however, by the third hiss i decided to go out and check on them. right about then there was this yowling noise. the only time i've ever heard any of them yowl is when ash wants attention and that's a loud, mournful sound. this wasn't as loud, but angry sounding. i've no idea if it was him or ember, but i've never heard ember make such a loud sound. even her loudest meow is pretty quiet. i went out there to see them in the storage room. ash was standing between the cat tree out there and the door going into the kitchen. ember was by the litter box out there and was actually the one trapped. that's not a situation i come across often. frost was also out there just inside the room. but ash had plenty of escape routes. he could have gone up the cat tree or out the room. he chose to stay there. i ended up stepping between them to keep it from escalating as they were growling at each other and i doubt it would have ended there. ash wasn't budging and ember felt threatened. even if he did leave, she would have gone after him. once they were no longer stuck there, i fed them treats.  last night was similar. some hissing followed by some yowling. still don't know who did it. went out there to see ember by the dining room table, but she wasn't completely facing ash. it almost made me wonder if she ran from him. but they ended up having a standoff and i sat out there talking calmly to them. ash was in the kitchen and i didn't went to set anything off by going by him to get treats. ash growled at her though and she responded with a growl of her own. she did go after him and slapped him, but he didn't leave. then she took off and went around the table just to come back, but stayed near the table. then i went and got treats and freeze dried beef liver fixed everything. it's really amazing how they go from tense, can't be within ten feet of each other, to totally fine and eating within inches of each other in a matter of seconds. food solves everything. there was still some tension, but nothing severe. ember went over and sat right behind ash. he didn't move, but you could tell he didn't like it. his ears were tilted and his eyes were narrowed and sometimes he look over his shoulder at her. but she walked away and all was well.  other than that there was one more incident with frost. i don't know what he did. ash was on the couch next to me, frost was on the floor. he did something. bit ash's tail or whatever. ash jerked around and made an aggressive sounding meow. ember got tense. he growled at her. she slapped him. then it was over. i hope frost stops that. it's all minor, but i'd rather he didn't add to the tension.  
 hahahahaha, but we are not thinking like cats...................  it could be other animals/ferals outside. it is probably something. you are right though it doesn't sound like the other things.  i think it was bad luck. it shouldn't happen for a long while i would guess.  interesting. i wonder how they got in that situation. it is interesting ash was like that. but maybe he didn't want to turn away and be attacked as you mention. i like that he isn't backing down much anymore but i don't want him to bully her. you did a really good job of diffusing the situation. and anytime they avoid a negative encounter it is a positive. and going forward ember should learn to be careful in that area so hopefully she doesn't get trapped again.  there are some positives in that situation last night. of course we don't like standoffs with growling but he didn't leave when she slapped him and then she took off but came back (who comes back if they are feeling threatened?). then they eat together!! positive. making a situation into a positive. you stayed calm which helped them. and yes, ash would be tense with ember right there but again nothing happened. so overall a really big positive in my view.  yeah, that will do it. and ember would react to that. but at least it ended without incident. sure a slap but it didn't escalate. that is a really big positive. yeah, some cats like to instigate. i have a feral like that and of course the other cat doesn't like it. it is almost like teasing to get some play going.  it sounds like you are doing a really good job. keep up the good work!! the instigation stuff should lessen going forward.  
 typically it is the hormones they smell from outside cats vs shelter visits. and if they see as well as smell the cats that can have a big impact. it can be cats but also other animals.  yes, all homes have that issue somewhere. usually we go and use levels so that one can be on the floor and one can go high. try to think as creatively as possible for that situation. but i know it is a tough spot. we all have those issues.  we don't know but with ash standing up ember will be less likely to chase/attack and therefore ash shouldn't feel as threatened for his survival. usually they work it out and not challenge each other and they avoid the fight (though they may make noise and even paw each other).  yes, food is the best way to build trust among cats in my opinion. being food motivated is great!!! yeah, the stinkier the better for cats. i look for the stinkiest food to trap ferals.  yes, but frost doesn't get it that it is not good. he thinks ash is like the old days and playful. ash will tell frost not to do it though which frost should eventually understand.  that is great!!! keep doing what you are doing because it is working!!!  yep. sounds like 2 of my cats.  yep, bratty. my one girl goes everywhere she shouldn't and i can't change it.   was it just outside of the litterbox? usually when they go right next to it it days there is some negative perception with the box. maybe someone scared him, maybe he had pain (from arthritis or something)? doesn't sound like a uti but keep an eye on him. i wonder if his arthritis was bothering him when he visited the litter box?  well, it is only one day and sometimes cat really behave when the parent is gone. i wouldn't worry as long as the people know cats. my guess is they will behave and do well. but they might be so excited when you get back that they may have excess energy they might get into it a little since they have excess energy from being so excited when you get back. but that happens all the time so it isn't something to worry about.  
  well, i'm glad they don't have a bad reaction when i volunteer. i enjoy doing it. it's almost surprising though, with how sensitive ember tends to be.   yeah, i just don't know. maybe i'll try rearranging some stuff so they can go up on something, but there's just so much out there. it's a long, narrow room as it is.  they definitely seem to spend a lot of time sizing each other up and debating on fighting. i sure hope it doesn't go any further. they haven't been fighting though. in fact, frost and ash were playing. well, frost that they still were when ash went trotting/running off. frost followed and they went into the storage room. ember ended up pursuing and i had a moment's worry that she'd attack because she tends to do that when they play. but she had stopped in the doorway and, while her tail was down, she seemed calm. i called her just in case though and she immediately looked at me, meowed, and came over. if she had been in that attack mode then she wouldn't have reacted to me.  i am finding that to be very true. food changes their mindsets immediately. i can diffuse any situation as long as i have food in my hands.  hopefully frost will get the message sooner rather than later.  lol. they are certainly brats. but oh well. i'm just happy she seems to be feeling more secure.  yep. it was inches away. too far to be accidental over the edge, but very close. i don't know. it happens so rarely that i don't think it's anything bothering him constantly. it was weird that he went on that carpet though. i almost made a vet trip right then because it's usually a bad sign when he goes on something other than a towel. it means he's getting desperate. it was weird for him to go on the puppy pad too. we've left them out before and he'd never used it.  well, i can't say the people know cats. they only have a dog that they don't take proper care of, but their kid is excited to have the job. she's definitely one of the calmer kids, but it still worries me. she's young and i don't see her much to know a lot about her. there shouldn't be much to worry about though. it's one day, so even if they don't get played with or brushed it shouldn't be a problem. they barely play with me anyway. i'm worried ember won't come out for them at all though. she's picky about who she comes out for. then she won't get to play at all and will probably have extra energy. and she won't get any attention or have anyone to snuggle up to to get warm. but the cat-sitters are supposed to be coming over to learn about what to do.  the cats will probably be fine. they don't seem to have any problems if my mom and i aren't both here with them. that doesn't stop me from worrying though. really, i'm not worried about how they'll get along. it's more of where the people can go wrong. and ash is so sensitive. you have to be careful how you even touch him. touch the wrong spot and you get bit. he doesn't bite hard, but it certainly doesn't feel good and it'll be worse if you try to pull away.  
 i'll try, but i don't know when i'll get around to it. it's been busy and it's going to remain a bit busy at least until after this trip.  yeah, i thought it was great that she didn't get so tense and attack them. the fact that she responded to be me is wonderful. she gets in that focused state of mind where i can barely get an ear twitch from her. that's when i know she's debating on attacking.  i will.  yeah, maybe. though if it was going to be a worker i would have expected it to happen today. there were a bunch of people out there working on the road. they had our block blocked off and were rather noisy. but who knows? he's a cat. cats will be cats. he does seem to have days where his arthritis is worse though. he's been doing okay recently, but it seems a bit back and forth.  i do worry about them trying to force attention on ember. i'm definitely going to tell them to leave her alone unless she comes out. she gets fed in my room and she can stay in my room the whole time they're there if she wants. it would be good for frost and ash to get attention though. ash doesn't always come out, but he never turns down attention. i'll probably try to find a soft brush. then they can get the treat bag out and whoever is comfortable with coming out will. they know the sound of the treat bag. i'll show them the toys too so they can try playing, but they don't have to force it. i'd rather the cats didn't have pent up energy, but it's not a huge deal if they do.  oh yeah! i forgot to mention that ember and ash were actually playing the other day. i worried for a split second that they were going to get in a fight, but i recognized the difference pretty quickly. it was brief, but still. it was a relief to see them interact in a non-hostile manner.  
 i don't think it is urgent so don't worry. just keep thinking about it.  yes, fantastic. that tells me that any problems are not that serious.  arthritis would do it as it would be uncomfortable and then it could be a negative association. and if some days are worse then others it could just be a bad day. it could be that simple. it usually is pain driven when they go right next to the box.  yes, everything on the cat terms. so if they know everything needs to be on the cat's terms and not to force attention etc then it will be fine. yes, it would be nice if they didn't have excess energy but even if they are drained they be excited when you get back and something minor might happen. but i wouldn't worry about it if it happens because there is a good reason.  great!!!!! yes!!!!! that is a great sign and they will be fine. i love to hear that. it is a time like this where a person knows all will be well!!! fantastic!! great work!!  
 i wanted to mention this before i forgot. it's not urgent, but important enough that i didn't want to take the risk. well, i'm hoping it's not important at all. i should have noticed earlier and i sort of did, but i didn't think too much about it. ash has been losing quite a bit of fur lately. i've been finding little clumps of fur all over the house constantly. today he kept forming these loose knots in his ruff. they weren't tight, just barely formed. i was able to kind of tug them out. barely any pressure at all. but it happened three times in a matter of hours and i was just pulling clumps of fur off of him. i vaguely noted there being fur everywhere last week, but wasn't too worried about it because it's not like he never loses fur. but it's not like he's losing the entire coat. it's just coming out in random clumps. i haven't noticed any extra fur when brushing him and i gave him a bit of a brushing tonight to check. it was totally normal except i got a clump off of his side which is unusual. his fur on his sides never knots.   i don't know what's causing it though. he doesn't seem stressed. he's been letting me brush behind his legs without a problem. it's been going on since before we left. there haven't been any issues between him and ember. in fact, i saw him give her a bit of a grooming as she walked by today. he's been going for ember's bowl(she doesn't leave anything behind) and he's using the litterbox in my bathroom, so he isn't avoiding my room. there's no change in his personality. he did get a little bit cuddling last week and was actually laying on/next to me, but i figured it was just because it was cold and ember hasn't been cuddling with him. and it's awfully cold for him to be losing fur. it's not like it's spring when he blows his coat, which doesn't usually come out in clumps like this.  
 i honestly never even thought about that. it figures cats would be that specific, but thinking back on it he does always do the same thing. i can't say it's the same for every litterbox, but for the one in my room he goes in and faces the back and, when done, jumps over the (rather high) back in order to circle back around, crawl halfway back in to cover his urine/feces. that means he usually goes towards the front, so i will have to start keeping an eye on that. i haven't noticed the other two. i don't see them in the litterbox often. they all seem to go in the morning around breakfast time, but it's dark and i can't see. however, the amount on the puppy pads(and towels) has been quite a lot.  no, i can't say i brushed him around the times he peed and i certainly wouldn't eliminate the possibility based on that alone, but it seemed like a good sign that he lets me brush him. if i catch him peeing outside the litterbox again, i'll try to remember to brush him afterwards.  i don't know. ash seems more obsessed with food than ever. it's amazing that they hadn't eaten yet. it was certainly too early, but they don't usually turn their noses to food. especially not ember.  well, i don't know about them, but i know i missed them while i was gone. i know it's unreasonable and i've been gone longer, but there's something different about being so far away.   it was cute. they seem to be progressing pretty quickly now. they're getting along and it's been really peaceful. even frost doesn't seem to be hissing so much though it still happens. sometimes ember wants to play with him and he just wants nothing to do with it. but it's fine if it's his idea, of course.  ash laid on my lap today. that makes three times in less than a week. maybe something really is wrong with him. lol.   i'll do that. i think it freaked me out with everything else going on. i'm afraid it's all related, but i just can't see the lines connecting the dots. but the timing seems off on pretty much everything. it's just that he's been targeting ember's food even before frost's now and i don't know if he's that desperate for more food or he just "discovered" her food and she finishes faster than frost, so he has to get there quicker.  speaking of ash trying to get ember's food, i witnessed a sort of funny stand off between them. ember was almost done with her food since she finishes shortly after ash. he went to get her food and did it slowly. took a few steps, stopped, took a few steps, stopped. he just slunk his way closer and closer. when he got within a couple of feet of her, she looked up and stared at him for a moment before going back to eating. he got a little closer. she stared at him again. it got so intense i half expected a fight to break out right then and there and almost interfered. but then she gave this litter chatter-y meow and went back to eating. so he got a bit closer. again, she stared at him. then she gave another little meow and he actually jumped as though he expected to get attacked. but she just went back to eating. in the end, she let him get right up to her bowl. i didn't expect that. it was like she knew that, no matter how close he got, he wouldn't dare steal her food. and he didn't. he sniffed around her bowl and almost put his head in it, but then he just turned around and left. i'm glad i saw it though. now i know he's not actually getting her food and it gives frost a better chance to eat.  
 haha. yeah, sorry about that. probably my only complaint about this site is that i can't just go back and edit any time. i would have added a comment at the top.   she was definitely more willing to listen later. at the time, no reasoning but her own made sense to her. she is a good person, but she's still learning. i am too.  i will. i'm trying to do better with the training sessions. also, i think i'm going to harness train them after all. we had some snow the other day and i let them go out to see it. well, i took them out in the space that we have blocked to keep them out of the basement. the backdoor is out there and i didn't want to watch all three of the at the same time, so i just took one at a time. i was surprised with the outcome. frost was the only one who didn't even touch the snow. ash never made it past the top step. ember, however, not only went past the top step, but she went out into the yard. another huge sign of her confidence building. we've let them out on the front porch a few times, but she'd rarely go more than a foot away from the door. and now she's obsessed. i've held her while letting the dog out before, but she really wants to go out now. not quite fast enough to get by me, but she tries. sometimes i take her with me to look out while i hold her. but i think i'm going to dig the harness out and try training her.   the cats really are doing great though. i've had all four animals on my half of the couch(big couch) with me more times in the past few days than the couple of years since i had four animals. ash has become a snuggle bug and wants to be on or next to me frequently. ember is coming around to the idea of him being there. ash is also getting better with stella. stella is gaining trust, but is still a bit nervous. i saw ember cuddle up to ash for the first time in a while i think it was yesterday. ash has groomed her a few times. everything has been really good other than that one incident and they got over that very well.   
 that is ok, i should have read further.  that is good that she listened later. it is understandable at that moment she didn't. i agree, she sounds like a very good person.  yes, keep trying. wow. ember. i did not expect her to be excited about going out. just make sure she doesn't sneak out.  wow, look at that paragraph. that is exactly the right thing. having them enar each other without incident, enjoying themselves. ash and ember snuggling??? great. ash grooming her. great!! that paragraph is the strongest evidence of things going well and no need to rehome. wow!!! i love to read this!!!  great job!!!   
 that is a good way to be.   yes, hopefully. yes, the style is almost as important as the substance. hopefully they learn that and improve as people do need help.  hahahaha, i wish i could see that. i can imagine how funny it must be. he views them as friends rather than food. i feel bad for mice too. my ferals will eat mice and rabbits and squirrels and birds etc. they get sick of their food and it is in their instinct. i just don't like that but i can't stop them. yes, it is better not to know or to see it. it is awful to see.   it is interesting that he goes wild after eating. hmmmmmm. sometimes they get wild before using the litter. it is great that ember is playing a lot. are the others watching her play? try to make the toy act like prey to ash. so imagine it is a mouse, movement then halt, then around a corner. really peak his interest. once they get in that hunting mode they will but sometimes it can be more difficult for some cats to get into that mood. but try to make it act like a mouse. those movements, halting movements. and make the toy disappear around corners.   
 yeah, i don't think it is necessary (a cam) either. only if your mom is really close to rehoming then i would to prove everything is fine during the day. if there was a problem it would be all the time and really crazy. i don't think there is an issue at all. yes, cats pick up on extra energy or stress and can then act out. so that is why we try to be as chill as possible and also burn excess energy through play to drain that excess energy out. every household has stress but trying to just handle it as best as possible is always helpful.  i think it was just one of those bad coincidences. those very well could be the cause. if it was really an issue there would be more litter box issues. thank goodness they are not having litter box issues.  i am not an expert on utis but i think you know when he would have one. and i think if he had one he would be going pretty much everytime or at least once a day for a while. i don't think you have let him with a uti for longer than it should be since we have been talking. it sounds like he is actually doing well avoiding utis. that is good on adding water and i didn't know that about glucosamine. interesting.  yes, i think she has been amazingly supportive. i know what you mean, you don't intend to have x number but it happens. and then you learn how to deal with all of them. and adding one more is exponentially more complex. i think you both have done an amazing job. you are giving them great lives, a great home. yes, it is not easy but there is no question in my mind you both have done an amazing job. i think you are past the difficult times and it will be much easier going forward.  oh, i know. i brought in a cat that took a year to introduce once. i had those same questions and doubts and fears. loving all the cats but fearing it may never work and wondering what is best. and i have had ferals i wanted to bring in but couldn't and they had shorter lives. emotionally it is very difficult. ember needs you that makes it even more difficult. i have a cat that is the same. she needs me. and to think about rehoming a cat like that is really difficult. that is why we have to do everything we can to prevent that. yes, having realistic expectations is really important. i have a lot of experience with cats so i have seen it all so mine are different than people with less experience or more good experiences.   yes, trying to eliminate those tight places in anyway possible (giving multiple escape routes high, on the ground, each side etc) is really important. try to think creatively and think about how they might move. i love cat shelving so a cat can go up and along the wall while another one is on the ground avoiding the confrontation but not everyone can do that. cats can balance on thin so that is a good idea so long as no human hurts themselves on it.  they are awful. when ferals are fighting it can be extremely serious. i have broken up too many in my life. that is another reason why i tnr.   
 we'll certainly have to keep a camera in mind. i think we can manage for now though. we get through our stress and so do the cats. we just need to manage it a bit better.  ash peed on a towel today. right when i thought we were done with that too. i don't know what to think though. stress? probably not. beginnings of a uti? too close to these past incidents to really be sure. a preference for towels? but he doesn't always do it. something else entirely? who knows?  oh, yeah. if he had had a uti it would be very bad by now. i don't think we waited anywhere near this long before taking him to the vet even the very first time and he'd barely been urinating at all and it had been bloody by the time we got him to the vet. he'd gotten so desperate he'd pee on anything other than just the floor or furniture. bags, towels, anything laying on the floor.  it definitely got a lot more complex than either of us expected. worth it, if you ask me, but definitely more complex. i couldn't regret keeping her. not if i tried. if i hadn't kept her, i wouldn't have known what having this relationship, this bond, is like. maybe coal would have been easier. he certainly had been a sweetie. more like his mother. but it wouldn't have been the same.  i've had a very difficult time thinking of rehoming ember. if i never had to do it again it would be too soon. i think i needed her. she helped shape my beliefs, helped me open up to the different personalities of animals. if i want to work with animals for the rest of my life then i'll need the lessons she's taught me.  yeah, it'll definitely have to be something narrow. i don't know if we'll be able to find anything. i'll try though. it seems like that hallway causes all sorts of trouble. it really is a tight spot, especially since you reach the end and there's three rooms, but no other way to get back to where you came from.   
 she definitely surprised me too. i've never harness trained either. i got a harness a while ago thinking i'd do it, but i kept going back and forth. right now i'm just trying to figure out how to go about it exactly. i don't really want to take them out back since that's where the dog goes to the bathroom, but i don't want them trying to dart out the front door. i mean, i guess they'd do it already if they were going to. we've let them go out on the front porch and they will go out if given the time to. there's also dogs, but i haven't actually seen one come down quite this far and we wouldn't be leaving the yard.  i did find the harness though and put it on two of the three cats. i ran out of time to get it on frost. ember was first and then ash. they both did surprisingly well. they did most of the work putting their heads through(using treats) and they kind of slunk around for the first couple of minutes, but adjusted quickly. ember kept crawling under my legs, so i don't think she liked it, but she did well and i'm sure i drove her crazy because i didn't know how it went on and had to adjust it.  ash has gotten so snuggly so quickly it actually almost worries me. it's like a switch flipped and he decided he wanted to be a lap cat. i've had him and frost on my lap which is quite a lot of cat. i had stella next to me, ash on me leaning onto stella(he's never done that), and frost squished in next to ash. ember is still unsure of this new arrangement. she does find time to lay on my lap when he isn't there though and we always snuggle at night. she's on my lap right now sleeping though i don't know how since i'm jostling her with every move.   
 yes, so true. that is wild. maybe the animals are so secure in their food source and removed from hunting for food that they except? even my ferals sometimes let the squirrels eat the cat food.of course, sometimes they can't resist and go after them but that is the outdoors. my sister has birds an though her cats watch the birds they don't go after them. it is fascinating.  ughhhhhh, so close....... but you got him interested, keep doing what you were doing. it worked!!  on the pad too? did he go in the litter box between those? it could have soaked through the towel and gotten on the floor so an enzymatic clean would do it well. it wouldn't sink through the puppy pad. let me know if he is using the litter box occasionally or if it is outside every time now. i would give the floor a good enzymatic cleaning. also, are you sure it is him? maybe someone else?  you are well past the worst. there are always slaps and hissed, they are cats. you should see my ferals who love each other and sleep with each other every day. i have the experience so i know when to worry, it is harder for people who haven't seen it all.  so true!!!  oh wow, he could be a big help. just try to describe to him what you are trying to achieve. fingers crossed.  hahaha, they always are. she is a sweetheart.  it is amazing. that seems really fast. a good sign they really trust you.  well sometimes when they experience something and like it then the floodgates open an they want it all the time. i know exactly what you mean. i have one on my lap most times i type or sit down etc and when you want to gt up they wont get off.  then of course they go where you were because it is you and it is warm. it is pretty cute though it can be annoying at times. like now where it takes 3times as long to type because she wants to be pet.   she will be. that is normal and a way to show respect as well to the elders in the house. she is a sweetie. i wish one of mine was more like that!!!  
 maybe. i'd say it's probably a combination of things. for the ferals, yeah, it seems likely they hunt more on a need-to basis. why expend extra energy when you don't have to? purebreds, it seems, lack some of the basic instincts ferals have. or perhaps not lack per say, but they're dull. faded. movement catches their attention and triggers what instincts are there, but they weren't taught to hunt and kill. i think part of it for indoor cats is also that they know who family is. they live in colonies outside and they kind of do inside as well. like my cats get along with each other and with the dog because they had to adapt and live with each other. they accepted each other into the colony. but they still don't like intruders. same with dogs. stella got along with my rats fine, but she'll chase squirrels and rabbits. she knew rats were family, but squirrels outside were still prey. they weren't pack members.   i got nothing today. he mostly kept his back to me. when i tried to get him to turn around, he flopped over and wouldn't get up after that. apparently he was partying while we were out.  i'm not entirely sure if he used the litterbox between those two incidents. they were pretty close together. but he seems to be using the litterbox most of the time. or just not going at all, but that's doubtful since it's been a normal amount. i'll try to keep an eye on him. they all seem to use the litterbox in the morning before and/or after i feed them. i'll have to see if he's using it then. it's usually dark, so i don't know who it is. i'm still betting on it being him. i haven't seen it, but i can't really see it being the other two. ash has a history that points to it being him and i know i've seen him do it once or twice, but it hasn't been just recently. maybe a few weeks or a month ago.  it can be difficult. it would be great if they could all just get along the entire time. i think it was really hard when it was so peaceful with just the boys. i love ember very much, but she did cause a lot of chaos. we never had an issue with just the two of them. i don't think i had ever even heard frost hiss until he started getting crabby more recently. they got along almost too perfectly.  yeah, i'll have to bring it up. i'm going to look around first though. if i ask him then there's no telling when he'll actually make it.  it does seem really fast. i don't want to push them, but they honestly did get over it very quickly. i thought i'd put it on them a few minutes and take it off because it would bother them so much, but they acted like everything was normal after a few minutes.  lol. i always struggle with getting up. especially with ash. it's still so new and unusual that i don't want to ruin the moment, but of course they have terrible timing. i feel bad for ember because she always wants to be on my lap when i'm going to be getting up within the next half hour. ember and i have, fortunately, formed a nightly routine. right now, as i type this, she lays on my lap using my arm as a pillow and sleeps. after this i'll watch anime and she'll lay curled up against my stomach and during that time i'll pet her some. then i finish getting ready to go to sleep and go back to bed and she'll lay in the crook of my knees if she's sleeping with me.  i feel bad when ash steals her toy though. i'm always tempting to take it away from him and give it back to her, but i know they need to handle their relationship when they can and all i'll succeed in doing and stopping anyone from playing. i'm an overprotective mother though.  
 i think that is right. they do understand some animals belong while some don't. it is interesting. i have only had ferals from the streets as cats so i have seen them change but i have interacted with cats that were born non-feral and they are more calm since they didn't have that need to hunt to survive.   hahahaha. maybe!!  it wouldn't be good if he didn't use the litter box between the incidents. maybe a uti is starting. i didn't think that was the case but reading this i am wondering. what is your sense?  that is pretty amazing they got along so well. male cats do get along better but still it is impressive.   great, yeah just try. maybe he will be able to improve it. let's hope.  that is so amazing. yeah, just read them and see how they react and make it as positive of an experience as possible.  they always pick the worst times. never fails. but they are resilient and though they may not like it at that moment they keep trying. that is a pretty good routine, i would guess ember loves that routine!!  i know exactly what you mean. it is hard to see it but probably worse to try to fix it. aren't we all overprotective??? hahahahaha.   ughhhhh, i am so sorry i only got to the site now. this was weighing on my mind the whole time i was responding to the other post.   it sounds like he is not feeling well. now, mine will be like that at times as well and it is nothing. they are just lazy or not hungry or it is just bad timing. or they are comfy and they are like why bother. but i worry because he has gone outside of the litter recently. throwing up can just be from an upset stomach and it passes. i am wondering how he did today. i am guessing it is just a bug or he ate too much etc but i am worried as well. it is a bit sudden though.   i am so sorry for not getting on here sooner. please let me know how he is doing today.   i will say, i have had my cats act like that and it has been nothing but we need to really monitor him. we have to make sure he doesn't have a blockage as hairballs can cause issues. let me know if he is using the litter as usual, eating and drinking normally, etc. any changes in how he is acting vs his usual routine. now if he hasn't eaten then he wouldn't have to use the litter box but he should be drinking. or if he is having trouble keeping his food down. it is hard to describe but i think your senses will know if something is wrong. it is just strange that it came on so suddenly. which tells me that it is probably just an upset stomach but if it is a blockage then it could happen this way so watching his litter box use is very important. you'll know if it doesn't feel right.   has he been grooming more lately? i wonder if he is pulling some clumps of hair out and ingesting them.  
   yes - they are currently laying together so he is still happy with his sister.   given his size, his litter box is also a rather large box with high sides and a low front so he is able to "easily" walk in and turn around. he tends to fling litter out because as soon as he is finished his business, he will just jump out in any direction. i'll look into the cat attract litter though - thank you!   
 what kinds of surfaces is he peeing on? is he specifically targeting soft surfaces?  one possibility is that sometimes declawed cats will get arthritis in their paws, which makes digging in litter boxes painful for them. if this is the case you could try switching to a 'soft' cat litter or putting puppy pads in the litter boxes instead of litter so he doesn't associate the litter box with pain.  
 honestly, sometimes it felt like my cat was just being a brat too, but it turns out she really was trying to tell me something!   
 hello and welcome to tcs.  yes, it is quite common, and as @mani mentioned, often happens after one cat comes home from a vet visit with a different smell on them.   it called "non recognition aggression" and tcs has an article on the subject: how to deal with non-recognition aggression in cats.   good luck. hope your cats are back to normal soon.   
 thank you for the replys @rubysmama and @mani. they had a dr appointment today to get spayed and now stella is wanting to attack bella, then she doesn't. i hope that this passes soon.  
 i would have almost thought both going to the vet, and coming back smelling the same would have solved the issue. if it keeps up, you might have to try separating them and doing a re-introduction.  how to fix an unsuccessful cat introduction  
 i've had my cat, cleo, for four years now. all four years, we've moved to different apartments/houses because i was in college for three of them and now i am in a house with my friends. recently, cleo has been running out of the front door when my roommates come in and out of the house? she doesn't do it with me because i told her no in a stern voice and she hasn't since the one time she tried. but, last night my roommate was coming home around midnight and cleo ran out the door and down the street (which is the farthest she's gone from the house). apparently a big dog saw her and almost attacked her but my roommate grabbed her just in time. this has truly never happened in any of the houses i've lived in before, so i am wondering what is wrong with this house/my roommates/my cat/etc. any help is appreciated!  
   hi there, hoping to find a little reassurance or advice from some fellow cat lovers. i live in istanbul, and if anyone is aware there are hundreds of thousands of stray cats on the streets. when i moved here with my boyfriend we got our first precious kitten bella, we have had bella with us for 2 years now and she is almost 2 and a half years old. she is the queen of the house, spoiled like only children normally are! 4 weeks ago, i found a tiny, 6 week old, abandoned kitten in the middle of the road, i couldn’t resist but bring him home. so then there were 2, bella and sunday. we kept a strict no contact rule for 1 week, the second week we introduced sunday into the living room whilst locked in his comfy cat carrier, for short periods at a time. the 3rd week we let the 2 loose in the same room and now in the 4th week i am leaving them together constantly. although a lot of the time bella is keeping herself to herself, i am trying to show her affection as she is normally a very cuddly cat and sunday is a very needy for attention little kitten. i have witnessed them playing chasing games, in a non aggressive way, which made me think things were improving. however, if he gets too close when bella doesn’t condone it or even if he is minding his own business no where near her, she will very aggressively approch him and shreek and swat him multiple times. sunday’s reaction always being to lay on his back with paws in the air. i am wondering if things will ever improve to a level that bella is no longer being aggresive towards sunday, as it is really bringing me down that he might be living in fear because of her hostile attitude towards him! thanks in advance for any help given!   
 hello and welcome to tcs. beautiful kitties.   i have to also agree, that things seem ok. the clue, for me, is that "sunday’s reaction always being to lay on his back with paws in the air.". exposing their tummy leaves a cat extremely vulnerable, so if sunday not only isn't running away, he's laying on his back, i think things are fine.  do continue to keep an eye on them, of course, but if there's no blood, no fur flying, and sunday doesn't seem scared, then it is just a combination of cat play, and lessons in cat manners.  
 thank you for taking the time to reply! you have reassured me, i am happy that this is fairly normal. hoping things will continue to improve as it is very hard to watch my two babies not getting along they way i hoped.  thanks, lesley x   
 right now bella is the "grownup" trying to deal with the "rambunctious little kid" that suddenly appeared in her world. the "rule" is to keep kittens with their mom and siblings till they are 12 to 16 weeks old, so the kitten has lots of time to learn cat etiquette. since sunday was only 6 weeks-ish when you rescued him, it became bella's job to teach him kitty manners. i do think once he's older, they will be friends. just ensure you get him neutered when he is around 6 months old. bella's spayed, right?  although you're already doing a great job with them, here's a tcs article you might find helpful: how to introduce a kitten to an older cat  
  i am happy to report that last night sunday fell asleep on top of bella, when they both woke up, bella spend about 2 minutes grooming sunday, licking his head, ears, tummy and feet . although they didn’t instantly become best friends after this, i know it is a great step in the right direction! long may the progress continue. i can already see bella is enjoying sunday’s presence, she has been much more active, running around with him, jumping and wrestling. i think this can only be a good thing  thanks again to everyone!  lesley!  
 when he bite hard say a loud high pitched "ow" and then ignore him. he will learn that hard bites stop the game. bella will bite him back to let him know it hurts. he will learn to how to softly "love bite"  
 i'd move on to the baby gate stage but stack 2 since both cats are big enough to jump over 1. the open door will allow free airflow and scent flow. they will also have the option to peek around boxes and furniture to get a protected view of each other from a distance.   since they are both scared adults it might move slower than other types of intros. with similar personalities i hope they bolster each others confidence.  
 how are they at night, in relation to you? at least one *should* be climbing on your bed,and wanting to sleep with you  
 i so agree with @di and bob's assessment of that behavior. you are on the way to harmony. just be patient. you can only go as fast as the least confident cat. time is your friend!  
 i forgot to add, due to the layout of my house, they can’t see each other unless one of them ventures into the hallway. and neither are. so they haven’t been regularly seeing each other either.  
 i would try leaving the door open while you are home to supervise. also switch regularly who is in the bathroom at night and when you are out. chai is more likely to explore at night or when she knows she's alone which will make her braver to come out when you are around.  
 i was able to get a video of what i'm talking about (ignore my dumb voice, lol!). it went on a bit longer than this and chilli walked away and came back a few times.     
 i wouldn't leave them alone (night is ok), the intense staring and the fact that one stays still is an indicator of agitation and that an attack is still possible. there is tail swishing too. to be perfectly safe i wouldn't leave them alone until they are comfortable walking around each other. there was no overt aggression, no growls, no hissing, no stalking or raised fur, that is good! it doesn't seem bad, if it was, chilli would have stalked and attacked. they are still not perfectly secure with each other's company and it wouldn't take much to set them off. so far so good!  
 no, not agression, but both are still on high alert. we know that from the tail motions, and there is some lip-licking that indicates nervousness, as well. @di and bob are right on this. but you are definitely making progress!   
 everything is really going ok. cats just take a long time to get used and accept each other. just keep doing what you are doing. chai is still too uncertain of herself. she needs some extra reassurance. keep interchanging any blankets they sleep on, and most of all, just mainly ignore them and let them get to know each other at their own pace. no outright attacks is a very good sign that things will work out. for a while there may be a little growling, hissing or wailing if one comes into the other's personal space, but even that will get better. in a year they will be buddies!  
 @di and bob is (are?) right! this is just going to take time, and they are actually doing better than it seems to you right now.  
 best news ever! yes! and we will be with you, every step of the way!  
 darlin', that's what we're here for! we love all cats, and we love those who want the best for their own cats. it makes for a bond, you know.  you really are progressing well with these two! i forsee a calm and peaceful home before too very long! and we'll be here for any little hiccups along the way...those can happen, and aren't the end of the world.   
 okay! there definitely isn't any of that that i can tell. there haven't been any stareoffs recently either. today chilli walked past the bathroom doorway without a single glance to investigate a box in the hallway, and was happy to eat treats quietly on the open door threshold while chai meowed at her. a few cautious glances but no intense staring.  even after chilli walked away, chai kept meowing--at me i suppose as she was staring right at me! my best guess at a translation is: "human, i really want to meet that cat and eat those treats, but you're too scary and i can't come out of my box!"    
 well, that or, "hey! see that other cat? i think i might get along with that other cat, what do you think?"  
 chai doesn't looked stressed. ears forward, eyes not dilated, and even exposing some belly while laying down. i almost wonder if she is trying to work up the courage to come out.  
 since she quiets down when petted maybe she getting more lonely than scared. can you call to her from other parts of the house when she's meowing? maybe she'll come out soon.  
 same issue today but much worse.  chai has been howling in the bathroom for hours. it’s past midnight here. i had to shut her in there because i was worried (still am) about getting a noise complaint... the apartment walls are thin here and korean landlords are not known for being kind about cats, even though they’re technically allowed. i could deal with the meowing if it was just me, but i am very stressed at the possibility that the landlord or building security might get involved.   tonight it’s a much louder, longer, meow than in the videos i posted. i know chilli meows like this when she’s going to the vet or when she’s behind a closed door—very upset and unhappy sounding.   it’s like chai wants out, but won’t come out when i open the door. so she just sits there and wails at me. well, actually, she did come out a little—when she first started meowing today it was because she had come out of the bathroom and was curled up in the second overturned box i set up nearby in the hallway. i praised her and told her she did a great job, and she slow blinked at me and quieted down for a good 15 minutes. i figured she was just saying, “hey! i came out of the bathroom!” then she saw chilli across the room and the meowing began again. it just got more and more loud and wailing and upset until i gently “scared” her back into the bathroom. i tried offering treats, catnip, petting... but today she was inconsolable, she barely accepted treats and just wailed at me and chilli nonstop.  chilli is still fine and nonchalant. she’s being a really good girl. she will stare occasionally or swivel an ear at the meowing, but if i offer playtime or food or petting she is more than happy to do that instead. i think she’s definitely ready for the next step... and chai clearly is... but i don’t know what that next step is.   i have no idea what to do in this situation. i really don’t know what she wants and i hate that she is just howling away in there. please help.  
 morning update... hopefully a good one... they are coexisting in the living room together!    i decided to make chai a new safe spot in the living room. i had to put her in her carrier and transport her out of the bathroom to take her there, which she wasn't happy about at first, but i think it was best for her. i think she was getting really lonely in there, and needed a figurative "kick in the pants" to make her come out and socialize.   the two cats are now chilling together peacefully in the living room, chai in her new hidey box with two entrances to peek out of. they both seem really relaxed, although chai is still making small meows occasionally at chilli and me (i think she wants chilli to come even closer and hang out with her!). occasionally glancing at each other, both slow blinking at each other and at me. very relaxed tails and ears. if the other moves or makes a sound, they will glance over, but very quickly readjust to being calm.   chilli in particular is being awesome, she has such a great calm energy that i think is helping (and will continue to help) chai a lot.   chilli was grooming and is napping now. chai is lying down and slow blinking at me. i honestly can't see any reason to not leave them alone together here in the living room, i'm not that experienced with cat introductions but i see zero red flags here.  
 sounds good. looking forward to your next update.  
 wow! great story, they are going to be fine, i have a hard introduction i'm going thru, a scaredy feral and an aggressive stray, takes time. your cats are doing really well!  
         
 i'm so glad they are friends now! i bet chai will figure out to wait for chilli to fall asleep and then snuggles in next to her. sqeeker (my skittish boy) 10yr/9lb will still climb on top of yoshi, 12yr/14lb and stay there until he falls off. yoshi doesn't even wake up. enjoy your family.   
 possibly. in fact, re-introduction was what i kept thinking as i read your post. at this point it can't hurt. and it's possible since they were separated he's feeling some sort of non-recognition towards her.  here's a couple tcs articles on the subject that might be helpful: how to fix an unsuccessful cat introduction how to deal with non-recognition aggression in cats  plus: why do cats attack?   
 if she screams, runs and then comes right back for more she is having fun and playing. yes, i am sure she does goad him, that is part of their game. some cats just complain a lot when the other cat gets the best of them. they were probably fine with your in-laws because they were a little nervous being in a strange place and so didn’t play as much or as hard. i would not try to “reset” their relationship nor would i separate them when she screams. just make sure there are cat trees and places where each can get away from the other and only break up their play if the noise is getting on your nerves or you literally see fur flying,  
 cats are very energetic creatures by nature. i found that by giving them a 6 ft carpeted cat tree, they use this to bounce on. they run up, down and swing from it. they really like to be up high. if climbing the walls is bothersome to you, you may want to invest in something.  
 my kitten already has a scratching post. he has toys but it may be time for me to look into a cat gym or something. what do u think?  
 i don't think that catnip is bad for kittens. i heard that most don't respond to it until after 6 months. also, some cats have no reaction to catnip.   clyde also loves bells. you can buy them at most craft stores and add them on toys yourself. just make sure that they are secure and kitty plays with them under your careful watch (you don't want him to swallow it). he also likes those mice, especially the felt ones or the ones that make a quiet "shaker" noise.   any suggestions on a horizontal scratching surface? clyde doesn't use his post but loves the carpet. i don't care too much now, because we rent, but when we buy it will be an issue.   also - i have seen scratching posts that wrap around the corner of walls (or door frames). maybe that will help with the climbing..   
 no, catnip is okay for any cat. i have never heard of any reactions from it. it is a natural grass. the only horizontal scratchers i have seen, they sell at pet co. they are make of cardboard. i have a few cats who will use them. the bottom is lined with catnip, so you gotta watch that they dont tip it over..hehe. the people i know that have the ones for corners and such really like them. you may even get a cheap rug from like walmart and lay it where he likes to scratch. then when you move, you can set the same thing up.  
 jessiecat my cat does that as well but it's not very cute it's more scary then cute but he does it almost everyday. but when he does it he is scared of me and of everything he does not want to see us. they i have to pick him up that's the hardest part because he runs at the speed of light.  
 so, the saga of duncan and barry turns the page and starts another chapter. for whatever reason, i have been wanting another cat and my wife agreed. we had been looking for the perfect cat for a while. not too hard, but would look at the kittens whenever we went to petsmart. this past saturday, a kitten chose us and she's been home since monday night.  so, here is paisley park:          she has already figured out how to play fetch with a spring and is an absolute love bug. she's got a squeaky meow and purrs, really loud, from the moment we walk into the safe room until we leave.  duncan is not happy and hisses and growls at her whenever he sees her through the baby gates, then he either runs away or into our bedroom where he can watch her door from as far away as possible. (the safe room door is across the hallway from our room).  barry sat outside the baby gate watching her this morning with no reaction either way, just perky alert ears. barry is very social with other cats, so i expect he will love her quickly.  tonight, the plan is to put her in our bedroom for a while and let the boys explore the safe room. depending on how duncan settles in, we might do a limited introduction on sunday.   
 thanks - barry and duncan are about 2 right now so they are both energetic enough to handle a kitten (i hope) and are both big boys. paisley is a tiny little thing - two pounds or so. hopefully they will not see her as any sort of a threat.  she is also one of the most affectionate cats i have ever met. duncan is super friendly and loves being around people and being pet but he's not a rubber. paisley cannot get enough of being pet and is constantly rubbing and bumping against us. hopefully she's like this with the boys too.   
 last night i let everyone loose to see what would happen. i kind of expected duncan to try to dominate her and beat her up a little bit, but except for a little bit of hissing from duncan and a little bit from paisley, last night was pretty uneventful. i locked her in her safe room over night and woke up to her crying like made at 4:30 (our usual wake up time, during the week). it is after noon and they have been getting along fine all morning.  there's no grooming or sleeping in one big ball, but there is only occasional hissing, play chasing and no fights. if this lasts, she will be loose for overnights.          
 yesterday marked two weeks with paisley. the boys are still a little leery of her and i can tell they don't quite know what to do, but they are not doing anything bad. there has been a lot of butt sniffing, a lot of chasing and some nose sniffing. it is hysterical to watch paisley, a little peanut, chasing 12 to 16 pound cats around and a little scary when they turn around and chase her.     
 oliver does the same but he's the chief so what can i do?  
 since there is no other changes in his behavior, perhaps you are onto something regarding the joint meds.   however, before i put feeby on glyco flex plus for arthritis, her jumping onto things had reduced significantly. i would think if he were in more discomfort he'd be less - not more - inclined to jump up on the back of the chair. however, if he is feeling some discomfort, he may just looking for some additional attention from you.   
 sadly not enough room next to my chair but there are 2 other chairs in the living room and his cat tree.   
 hi guys.  i have a 9 month old guy named bandit who is very social and loves all new people and animals he's met. he likes to interact so much that he was starting to get really hard to handle needing constant interaction and attention. he would scold me for a couple of hours every time i came home from work and would wake me up at 5 am nearly every morning to be played with.  anyway, long story short i got a rescue kitten from the spca on saturday so he'd have a buddy to hang out with when i am out or busy. he is so social and tolerant of new people that i decided to skip most of the steps for introducing a new cat. there was some growling on the first day and then some wrestling to establish to the new kitten who the boss is, but for the most part they seem to have worked it out. they have no problem sleeping with one another already and bandit has been caught grooming the new kitten a few times. sometimes bandit still likes to assert himself but sometimes he lets the new kitten chase him a little.  the reason for this thread is that i have noticed some behavioral changes in bandit since saturday. he used to purr a lot when i came home and when i scratched his ears or chin. he isn't the cuddliest cat on earth but he used to at least tolerate it and start purring when i'd pick him up and lavish affection on him, now he squirms out right away. he used to play obsessively with a feather wand toy i have but now he can't even be bothered with it, or any of his other toys. he will just watch the kitten play but even when the kitten isn't around he can't be tempted to play.   it's a bit too early to tell but i think he might be sleeping more in the last couple of days, but there has not really been any change in his diet or litter box habits.   do you think i'm just being overly worried and he's just adjusting to the new addition? admittedly i am spending more time with the kitten because he is always jumping up on me, but i am making sure that i regularly interact with my bandit, feed him treats and pet him and try to play with him.  
 my friend keeps on complaining about this and i don’t have a good answer so i figured i’d swing it by you guys.   she has three cats, not related, whom are about four/five years old - one male, two females. a local shelter needed room so she offered to foster these three that got along the most and she ended up adopting them. all are spayed/neutered.   one of the females, if you are petting one of the others, will use her body weight to push the other cat away for pets, or manuver herself so you end up petting her instead. it doesn’t matter if she was napping or you had tried to pet her and she didn’t want it, she will come over as soon as you try and pet another one. i’m not the greatest on body language, but i know there has been no hissing/growling/attacking when she does this. she also cries constantly during the night (as soon as my friend is ready to sleep). the cats were in last month and all were healthy.   she brought them in a year ago and it’s been happing since then. she’s unsure if it happened at the shelter. she’s tried completely ignoring them all, giving the female more attention, pushing the female away when she does this. she’s even tried calming sprays and collar. and the female does this with every human.   thoughts?  
 i have a similar problem. three cats, 2 female 1 male. one of the females kiwi is quite possessive of me. when i am petting, playing or showing any attention to the other female pickle, kiwi appears and pushes in between us even if i left her fast asleep in another room. so in answer to your question, yes i definately think there can be non aggressive jealousy.  
 although not recommended in general, a squirt bottle, in certain instances can be very effective. next time a family member tries this, squirt them several times while loudly and firmly saying "bad"  
 hi. never heard of a cucumber phobia fear in cats. but, your cat has a right to be afraid of your family members, for sure. i like the idea of spraying them!   also, you might want to put up a sign on your front door when your family visits that says: no cucumbers allowed. violators will be sprayed. but, then tell them you are really serious about this.  
 calder isn’t being aggressive or naughty. he is just doing his best to get tuck engaged in play with him. a cat his age has tons of energy and really wants a playmate which unfortunately tuck doesn’t want to be. i would suggest you engage calder in heavy duty playtime a couple of times a day until he is worn out. i would also suggest that you not get involved in any interactions between him and tuck, so maybe tuck will stand up for himself if he gets annoyed enough.  
 the thing of it is, i'm assuming tuck isn't content or happy right now - he needs some special attention. from another thread (with the understanding that tuck is a male  ), @animal freak "if you're not already, start playing with her. if you are, play with her more. have two or three ten-fifteen minute play sessions at the very least. are there any places where she seems even less confident? places where the majority of the attacks have happened? play with her there until she seems completely calm. once she's acting confident, holding her tail up, etc. then you should start with reintroductions. work slowly until you can get to the point of having baby gates or a screen door or something in between them. give them treats to start relating each other with good things. start trying to get them to play while ignoring each other. the ultimate goal is to get them to be able to play together with nothing in between them. then they'll realize they aren't a threat to each other".  how to introduce a kitten to an older cat  how to fix an unsuccessful cat introduction  
 i recently added a new kitten to the household and generally it has been going pretty smoothly. i used the crate method so the kitten would be safe and confined but the resident cat wouldn’t lose access to any of his territory, and they had their first meeting with the door open about a week ago. the two started cautiously playing together within days, and i’ve observed fairly regular social greeting behavior, especially as initiated by ciaran (resident cat).  but there’s two persistent changes in ciaran’s behavior around interactions with me. he’s usually a determined lap cat, but since mid-last week, he’s been staying at more of a distance. he’s happy to receive pets, but not really seeking out physical contact or affection in the same way. the other change is the bed-ciaran usually spends at least part of every day sleeping on the bed independent of whether i’m there. currently, he’s been avoiding the bed, except for a brief period in the middle of the night. i would consider this a normal rotation of preferred resting spots, except i frequently find him sleeping on the floor right next to the bed. i’m interpreting these behaviors as some evidence of anxiety or feeling vulnerable in those situations. i’ve tried putting kismet back in the crate for a few hours at a time to let ciaran have some alone-time with his territory, but all this seems to achieve is upsetting the kitten.   compared to the drama some cats go through on introduction, this seems quite minor, but i thought i would see if there were any other ideas to help boost ciaran’s confidence.  
 he may just be feeling a little displaced by the newcomer and withdrawing. when you have cuddle time with ciaran or he is relaxed, try rubbing your forehead against his which is cat language for “you are mine” and letting him know he is still top cat. it has definitely helped when i had a cat with hurt feelings because of a new resident.  
 i can't figure out how to edit my original post, but i wanted to add that she started sneezing/eye twitching a few days after our move to a new apartment in a new city. also, our old vet suggested feliway to help calm them down, but i have no experience with using that, and read reviews stating it made cats angry.   
 thanks! fingers crossed   
 my female cat never sprays when the neighbor cats come over. they come right up to the window to visit with her. she freaks out and tries to punch them through the window, but she never sprays.   
 good morning!  let's start with some background: coconut is a 5 month old neutered (used to be) only child. he was separated from his mother a little too early as when i rescued him he was only 6 weeks old. he's had issues chewing and biting a little hard in the past and that is only accentuated now because he is teething. he is also pretty big i think for only being 5 months (he's about 5 lbs)  the issue: i just brought home a new little kitty hazelnut (who is 2 months old 1.5 lbs and spayed) to keep him company while i'm away during the day.  the introductions have gone very well and they warmed up to each other very quickly. the issue that has arisen is that when they start to play with small batting (coco usually bats very slow and gentle to start, then hazel retaliates with a very fast smack that riles him up until he's chasing her around the room) when he catches up to her and the start to wrestle that's when she screams and is very scared of him.  for a while after that she hisses whenever she smells or sees him and i am forced to keep him separated out of my room and in the living room where his litter and food is. he does not like this at all and cries at the door until i let him back in and things are good for a while until the cycle happens again.   he is normally very timid around her until she starts something with him by either running up to him or batting at him when he comes to sniff her.   all of this is a huge improvement from when we had first brought her home and he hissed and growled every time he smelled her under the door, so i know at least he is taking not being the only baby anymore in stride.   what i would like to know: how can i deal with what seems to be coco using too much force while playing, and how can i keep hazle calm while he is coming up to explore her scent?  
 hmnn.  
 @kieka can you post your video of your 2 cats "playing" for reference.  
 thanks for that video kieka!  it seems that coco and hazel play a lot morep physically. sorry about the messy room. i didn't expect them to run around so much.    i try not to intervene until she starts crying and can't seem to get away and coco doesn't stop. as you can see most of the time she is the aggressor bit can't seem to take it in return.   right after i picked him up in the video i put him outsuou the door and they immediately started playing with each other's paws so she wasn't done with the play time all together.   also, for a while before this as soon as i got home, i was holding both of them and coconut started grooming hazel. she was getting a little upset during that however. so obviously he doesn't hate her or think she's an enemy.  
 i've never had 2 cats at the same time, so i'm no judge at all as to the difference between playing and fighting. so i'm glad @kieka is here now with her video and comments.   one thing i wanted to mention though, is to be careful using your hands to separate them. even if it is just play, they are focused on each other, and your hand could easily get scratched or bitten. and both cat scratches and bites can become infected.  here's a tcs article with more info: cat bites - what every cat owner needs to know  plus one on how to safely break up a cat fight that might be helpful.  
 just going back for a moment isn't anything to be concerned about.  this is what you don't want to see...    ears flat to head, whiskers back, eyes dilated. any of those might happen for a moment during rough play, but when you see all of them, and they don't ease off almost right away, you have an issue. oh...i must add, just as that cat is ready to attack, the whiskers may sweep forward again, because cats can't see well at all up close, and they hone in on prey by touch.  
 also, overall, the amount and duration of meowing has improved. but not nearly enough.  
 sorry she's keeping you awake. it still sounds like she wants to be with you. and if i was you, i would try opening the door and seeing what she does. but i understand you not wanting her in your bedroom at night. sorry i don't have any other suggestions.   
 ignore this post!  
 granted i'm more of an early bird, but 7 am to 9 am isn't exactly early for a cat.  since she's done her "job" and woken you, could you get up, tell her "good morning", pet her, give her some food, and go back to bed?   i do understand, and feel for you, with the sleep deprivation. i need a full night's sleep too, and when i first adopted my ruby she used to wake me an hour or more before it was time to get up. luckily for me, putting her out of the bedroom, and closing the door, when she woke me broke her habit. i wish it could be that easy for you.   
 i know your cat is on a diet, but maybe you need to reconsider the type of food and schedule she's on. 7am is a natural time for a cat to become active and hungry. giving her some wet food could actually keep her satisfied longer.  
 hello, my new male kitten bodie has bonded well with my other kitten finn just fine. he's eating and using litter box without problem, but he will not let us touch him without running away. i'm worried that there is a small window to bond with this kitten. i am home all day and an experienced cat owner. after bringing him home, he was given a room for a few days, then introduced to the house. he did very well. my other kitten is the same age, (but not same litter, or household). they get along well and i can play with him at a distance only.  when you get close to him he runs away. when i've been able to grab him, he doesn't fight to get away and sometimes purrs when being petted, but he doesn't want to be there. now it's hard to even get close enough. i don't want to traumatize him by moving quickly to grab him. we've blocked off bedrooms so that he doesn't hide all the time. he eats in communal area, uses litter fine. my concern is that we only have a small window and i'm worried it's closing. i've never met a kitten that didn't want to be touched-obviously he wasn't handled enough while being fostered at a reputable adoption center. he's been here 2 weeks. what advice can you offer?  
 hi! if i'm reading your post right, it sounds like at first you were able to do more with him, and now not so much.  i'm wondering if he maybe is simply a cat that isn't "wired" to be a snuggler, or that he needs time to be allowed to come to you, rather than you grabbing him? he's picking up on your stress, i'm positive of that, and i think if you can worry less about the window of time things will happen, at his pace.  try music, low volume classical harp music or george handel compositions work well to relax cats (and people  ) or there's an app relax my cat.  this'll take time, but try sitting in a room, on the floor with him, reading out loud (happy poetry is good) but don't look at him. don't force him at all, have a favorite treat on the floor, not your hand. i apologize i don't recall who the tcs member is who has suggested this but put a sock on the end of a long stick/reacher, back scratcher, whatever, and pet him with that to get him used the sensation and the idea of it. eventually you'll be able to move closer, have treats in your hand, use your hand for petting but always let him approach you.  i really feel strongly, as it sounds like you do too, that if you rush this he'll end up not being a people cat at all. but, due to his initial "yeah, i'm sort of ok with being held" attitude, i think time and patience will bring you rewards   
 i would try sitting on the floor with a spoonful of delicious wet food and try to entice him to come close before you let him eat it. then keep bringing it closer every time so that eventually he needs to get on your lap to get it. then you can try giving him a gentle pick up from your lap while feeding him and work towards you being able to pick him off the ground before he gets his treat. this all might happen in quick succession or it might take months but if you go slow it should work. there are some cats, however, like mine that are so distrustful of being offered a treat that it makes them run in the opposite direction. if that is the case with yours, then i would try petting him and picking him up when he is asleep or very sleeping.  
 what do you use for treats?? i'm not knowledgeable with raw diets, but if you have a kibble type treat you could use those in puzzle feeders. there are ball type toys that will spit out a kibble as they get knocked around.   
  with their level of activity and age, i would strongly suggest looking at your recipe to make sure they are getting enough nutrients. if the recipe itself is fine, then he needs more of it.  this is really important; you should have been feeding them as much as they could consume during their entire first year, so as soon as you got them, they needed to eat a lot.   so, now, there's absolutely nothing wrong with testing the theory by feeding him some more, and seeing if he stops working so very hard to get more food.  in other words, he's trying his darndest to tell you he's hungry. every cat is different, and his nutritional requirements are probably different from your other kitty's although the other one could likely benefit from more food as well.  at this age, for the first year and a bit beyond that, cats are still developing/growing all of their systems, brain, eyes, bones, nervous system, etc. the weight may stay the same but that is not an indicator of nutritional requirements. help your baby meezer out and provide him with more. in addition he's "playing"catch-up from his illness and may very well be going through a final growth spurt that was stalled while he was sick.  
 well i bought them a treat ball, and while that does distract them a bit while i'm preparing their food, they're still pretty noisy about wanting food. they lose interest in it pretty quickly unfortunately, so it only works sometimes.   i also started feeding them more, but no change seen so far. that might take time though, if they need to gain weight.  it's just super frustrating having them constantly crazy for food. yesterday one of them knocked a bowl out of my hand as i was setting it down and it just drove me nuts. please tell me there's a light at the end of this tunnel! i'm wondering if some of the issue is just that they are young cats, and maybe they'll mellow as they get older.   still pushing on with the training, and hopefully that kicks in at some point. they're great at sitting quietly for actual treats, just not so much for meals.  
 hi! i realized that about your already using egg after i'd hit post, and edited my post lol sorry about that! (bless you for your patience with that)  i was wondering if temporarily, until they calm down about food and/or grow to the point of maturity and don't need as much food, could you pick up a bag of merrick with raw (merrick raw infused), or instinct raw boost and let them have some kibble overnight?  
 i would look for better or bigger pads. i use out xl pads but they do sell an xxl that is like 30 x 36. or you could go to a medical store and buy human incontinence pads which are thicker than those made for pets.  
 i haven't had a vet that didn't push for expensive care in over 30 years and wish i did, but around here even the good vets are steeped in big business culture. i think your lucky to have that. that said, just to make sure your vet went over stuff with you, you should know that there are some cheap things that can be done (diet and fluids) that buy some time, even if it is just months.  
    hello.    my husband and i have had our cat arno for over 4 years now, we have moved several times with him to different apartments but now we have a house. we have been here since late december, so over 9 months now. 2 months ago, arno started peeing here and there throughout our house. he made it a habit on our couch and we cleaned it over and over until we couldn’t do it anymore so we got a new couch. no issues on the new couch which was good! but then, he started peeing on one of our blankets. now, that’s a habit, and we clean it like we did our couch. we’ve done the recommendation of changing his litter, and litter box. we clean out his litter box everyday. i also read not to put his food around the litter box which is also not a problem, and never has been. so it’s been an ongoing issue that came entirely out of nowhere. like i said, we have had him over four years now and this issue just spurred out of nowhere. we had him even as a kitten and he’s never done anything like this.    so, we took him to the vet, and the vet let us know that arno has a small bladder but everything else about him is in regular shape. he’s healthy, and everything other than the small bladder is normal with him. just gave us some medication to help him feel better with the urination i think, my husband took him in so i’m not entirely sure what the medication did. but after we gave him the medication, he started peeing in his litter box like normal for a couple weeks which was great and we felt better. and then even on his meds out of the blue, just started peeing on the blanket again. at this point we are at a loss and i feel so lost as an owner as to what i’m supposed to do for him.    we just got a new bed for ourselves, new comforter and everything. just last night we had finished setting everything up at 2am. he pees right on our new pillows and pillowcases, on our new comforter twice overnight.    i just need the advice at this point, because i would like to take care of him as much as i can and to make sure he is doing healthy. i would also like to point that again we have been in this house for almost a year and we’ve heard the issue of it possibly being a “territorial” thing but at this point he’s used to the new house. we want to take him to another vet for a different point of view also, but if it continues it’s very hard to handle what he can’t control. arno is the love of my life and it would be so hard for me to see him go because of this. but since it’s only been a few months of this issue i wanted to see if anybody knew of anything i could do. we have tried so much but i don’t want to give up.    thank you.  
 what a sweet kitty. i got deja vu reading your remarks vis a vis the licking but not biting up the food. the stress routes to rough play in an exhausting pattern. i noticed a similar issue with a stray i rescue. she had trouble eating and any noise + or possible invisible friends_),distracted her. problems with vision close up she could play like a master ocelot but like you say trouble picking stuff up off floor. she would sortbof figure it out coming back to the same area later..  i worry about the large pupils. i that my cat was having mini strokes to triple digit heat exposure with no shelter or water. i noticed sometimes she would be hard to settle down when her pupils got big in the heat she would sleep in the sun and i wondered if her eyes suffered when she didn't duck down her head. your love is so needed by such a cat props for taking on the hard case. be good to hear what a vet would say.  
 my cat does something really weird. he likes to explore closets, which is fine, but then he will sit down in the middle of the closet and start meowing. he'll keep meowing and meowing until i call him name, then he'll come running out with this expression like, "thank goodness, you saved me!" i've tried keeping the closet door shut but then he attacks the door. he has torn off the door stop and left scratches all over the paint.  for the life of me, i can't figure this out. he's not exploring -- he's just meowing (loudly), for no apparent reason. can't he figure out how to get out of the closet? (i mean, the door is open!) does he think he's stuck in there? it is so strange.   rebecca  
 my cat tiana does this all the time specially at night and i have no clue why. she goes in my closet but makes it so the door is almost all the way closed and meows at the back wall until i call her name or walk over to her someone explain please  
 cats are quirky and love attention. usually when my cat starts his crazy meowing he just wants to play. we know each other super well so he trusts me if i run up to him imitating that throaty “brrrr” noise and chase him. he would jump where he’s not allowed to and meow so i give him attention, too. sometimes it could be that they hear critters in the walls or floors, but in our case it’s mostly boredom.  
 how old is he? my 17-year old cat will sit in the middle of the floor or on the toilet set cover or in another room and yowl. she is either hungry or just plain lost. if i go and pick her up and put her on the bed beside me, she usually calms down.  perhaps if you stop responding, the behaviour will stop. so difficult to do, when they just keep it up.  how about closing the closet door?  
 animals can see things we can't. there's something in there!   pops  
 hk has done that periodically since he was young (he's about 20 now). i, too, think it's a game of hide, call out and your human will seek you.  
 okay so... i'm only bothering to ask because this isn't really something i've seen as 'common' in cats before and its not really the most positive thing hes doing.  so... my kitten has been mellowing out enough now where its not totally stressing out my older cat 24-7 anymore, so he spends 95% of his time with us, with the other 5% being if he gets a timeout by himself for a short time to calm down before he comes out to play again.  he used to be a terror at night but now i can get him to actually sleep also, which is really good. but hes started up on this new thing now where he 'herds' my other cat away at times.  by this i mean... gent headbutts to 'move her'.  i at first thought he was playing or maybe was trying to nuzzle up and she moved away in annoyance... but the more it happened the more i noticed if he wanted her spot or wanted her out of his spot, he would gently butt his head against her side to encourage her away from the area.  he doesn't harm her when he does it, but he is being a jerk either way.  i've tried punishing him by moving him onto the floor if he does it to hog me to himself, but he doesn't just do it with me. if shes relaxing on a box and he wants to lay there, because she growls at him to ask him to leave her alone, instead he responds by butting her side gently a few times till she hops down and he can take her spot.  its really troubling my 5mon old kitten is dominating my older kitty who is like... 8 or 9 years old now...  while i don't really expect advice so much on a fix, if anyone could tell me anything useful, which would help, that would be great.  if i could figure out why hes doing this it might help a lot. i'm not sure if this is a male kitty thing since i only grew up around one male cat's youth of kittenhood into adulthood and so identifying stuff like that is a bit harder for me... if it is because hes a boy, then what reason for it would be nice as i'm more used to girls and never saw them do this.  he does a lot of... 'boy kitty' actions above what i'm used to girls doing, like his overly rough play but this is something i'm not sure if hes just trying to dominate her to be dom simply 'cause cat' or if this is a male thing...  
 he only does it when he wants to lay down or get attention and hes in the way. also, my cats lay on the bed with me. they prefer the closeness to sleep in their own bed so unfortunately, the two-bed thing won't work as effectively.  but yeah, i do put him down when he does it to show him its rude and he can't just have what he wants like that. shes too passive a cat so she lets him get away with too much...   
 hello and welcome to tcs.  sorry it's kitten litter box avoidance that brought you here.    did anything change in the household prior to the beginning of her inappropriate peeing?  
 thank you. i always knew i was lucky that my old man was such a good cat, but i am definitely feeling extra appreciative of him now.  i suspect funky may be drawn to heights, or possibly just anywhere in any direction ever. he will do anything to get in it, on it, or under it.   is there any special kind of brand of tape? will it leave behind residue> i could look for fake grass.. there's some things that come to mind for fish tanks but usually in smaller amounts.  has your cat ever had any ill effects from the pothos? or was it just the plant that suffered the ill effects of cat?   
 where might be the best place to find the carpet runner? that may be my best bet, assuming it just works on the cat.  i have 2 cardboard scratchers, and one of those circular ball thingies with the scratcher in the middle. funky will use them, but simon could care less. the cat tree has sisal posts, which they both enjoy using, but simon's go to is the rug carpet and 2nd place is the couch. one scratcher and the ball thing are on either corner of the rug, and the tree is a few feet away on the other side of the couch but he still doesn't use it. he kinda just does it wherever he feels like it, which is apparently an inch away from the actually scratcher. i'm honestly at a loss.. i always thought the cardboard was a big favorite and irving wouldn't use anything but. simon only uses it when he happens to be walking across and the mood strikes. they both enjoy chewing it to shreds, so.. i guess it has some uses.  oh man, i hope this calms down in 2 yrs. i've had friends tell me 6- 7 or never. they are very cute but i honestly can't wait until they grow up. i have a fondness for older animals and it seems that cats are no different. i would love to adopt an older cat, one day (in 20 yrs), but i just couldn't do that to myself so soon after loosing irving.   
 that's a great idea, i love halloween.   
 sticky tape - free shipping at chewy.com  sticky tape.  
 i use   a pill cutter and cut the treats 1/4 then hide them or my cats figure out how to get the treats. i like the 2nd puzzle. the first one is messy and not as much fun! luckily, ants are hibernating so don't need to worry about that  
 simply using your existing furniture that is up against a wall as the start off point with sturdy floating shelves in a "stair like" pattern in between the "strategically placed" furniture around the perimeter of your home should be good. you can even paint the shelving the same color of your walls so they blend in more. to ensure there is no slipping and falling off the shelves i would put carpet strips on them. (just the top, so again, it won't be too ugly or noticeable)  when it comes to the fish tank. i had the same problem but with a reptile tank. mine would always try to jump on it, and i was terrified he would burn himself on the heating bulbs. i put the tank between 2 book shelves (that were totally full, so he could not climb those either), and then attached strips of wood that matched the book shelves horizontally across, between the shelving and above of the tank in 6 inch increments. he stopped jumping up after that. it was like he could not fathom jumping over the "fencing" without knowing where he could land on the other side. something else i've herd can deter a cat from jumping on a specific item is to put something around the top perimeter, but it needs to be angled outwards. think of the way crown molding is around the top of kitchen cabinets but wider. having that extension of height coupled with the fact that the angle does not allow them to see around it, where they would be landing (if jumping from the floor, or lower than the object). it messes with them where they won't jump on it.   
 jackson galaxy my cat from hell, has a book with step by step instructions to catify. my cats never liked the circular scratching possts. maggie likes vertical and horizontal. coco horizontal. she has trouble getting her claws off on the verticle. she is a small adult cat. she stretches her arms but has trouble getting them down. get scratchers made out of sisal,not card board.  
 i don't mind him doing it, but he gets so loud and when he does it on my shirt, he leaves a big wet mark on it even after just a few seconds. when he sits or lays w me, he seems to think he has to do it.   
 your busying yourself with the tray just might remind him that he "has to go". a fair number of shelter kittens will come and use their tray as soon as you start scooping - and it's always that particular tray, not the other(s) in their room. they outgrow it after a while, or simply start using it immediately after you finish.  it'd be best if the new owners had two trays that they scooped in situ.  
 a second tray would work or you could bring the bin to the box and scoop it out there. then you haven’t actually removed his box. or you could wait until he has fallen asleep to clean out the box  
 no, the only thing that changed is that they were two kittens that i was ofstering, and one had been remohed two weeks before my post, and about ten days before the first episode. he was shocked to be alone at first, but that phase lasted three days, then he was happy to have all the house just for himself    
 hello,  i’ve posted my story on here a few time so i won’t bore you with all the details. i’m 4 month into introducing a new cat into our two cat household. things are finally going pretty well. cats hang out pretty much all the time except at bed time and when we aren’t home. the current issue that we continue to have is our male resident cat pinning new kitty in or around the litter box. not physically but with swipes, hisses, shrieks and growls. we have 4 litter boxes scattered around our 2 bedroom home. we find ourselves watching new kitty for signs she needs the litter and then quietly closing the door so she can go in peace. any tips? it just happened again this evening. all boxes were freshly changed this afternoon.  
 where's the litter boxes kept?  i think your old cat is being territorial and showing your new cat who's boss  any chance you can keep their litter box far apart?  also, how did you introduce them to each other?  i would read this article  how to successfully introduce cats: the ultimate guide  
 to answer a few questions and comments. like i said, litter boxes are scattered around the house, not all in one place.  i used jackson galaxy’s method for introducing cats. we went very slow (still are.) i’m not starting the introduction process over... we aren’t to that point. this little box aggression is something i am monitoring very closely. we immediately separate them the few times this has happened. we let everyone cool down for a while before letting them be around each other again.  to the person that asked me how i ended up with two cats when i didn’t like the one i had??? i don’t know where you read that... i had two cats and a third one found us this summer (she was a stray) so we took her in, and have spent 4 months getting her healthy and introducing her very slowly into our 2 cat household.... i never said anything about not liking the cats i already have. i’ve been a cat mom for over 15 years at this point. i know this is going to take time. i am just looking for advice from others.  
 i adopted a 4 yr old male cat last tuesday and named him bosco. i have an 11 yr old resident cat named elmo. i put bosco in my bedroom for a couple days, and on friday i switched them. i was letting them look at each other through a baby gate a few times per day while they were separated. there was a little bit of hissing, but nobody attacked the gate or anything, so last saturday i started letting them out together with supervision. they were tolerating each other, if not friendly quite yet. they would walk within a couple feet of each other without any hissing, and one time i think bosco tried to play with elmo.  so everything was progressing nicely, but this morning they had a screaming, growling, tumbling fight. it started in the bedroom, and i was in the living room, so i'm not sure exactly what happened. maybe bosco tried to play with elmo again, and he wasn't having it. is this normal in cat introductions? and should i go back to square one? bosco is safely in the bedroom now.  
 people can be one step forward and two steps backwards at times. cats are no different. take your time and don't rush it you should expect at least 5 to 6 weeks of tension between them and should put the new cat in a room. you should not let the new cat have the run of the house right away and should gradually over weeks introduce it. there are articles on introducing kitties. you can go to the article section of the site and search "introduction" there are lots of great articles that will help you.  take your time and don't try forcing it. don't get stressed by it either, they can pick up on your anxiety. cats are very beautifully complex little creatures. the link below should be a good start.  you, your cat and stress  that is in the article section there is a lot of helpful advice on cat introductions. i hope it doesn't take you several weeks but expect it to so if it takes less you will be pleasantly surprised all the best to you and both your kitties.  
 hello and welcome to tcs. with winter coming, it sounds like a good idea to keep all your cats inside. some might fight the idea more than others, so here's a tcs article that might have some tips for you: the five golden rules to bringing an outdoor cat inside  
 as di and bob said, cat flaps aren't all that safe. foxes and other creatures can come in through them. your cats should be frightened of foxes and raccoons can come in through them. our current cat is the only survivor of a litter that was attacked by raccoons. they killed her mother as well.  
 hello and welcome to tcs.   sorry it seems that your cat likes your wife better than you.  does your disability involve medication that the cat might be able to smell? or something that might have startled her at one time?   has she always been distant towards you? and how old was she when you adopted her? i wonder if she was just around females more, and is therefore more comfortable around your wife.  here's a tcs article that might have some tips for you: 14 cat experts reveal: how to get a cat to like me  
 hi. i would be bummed too if i were you. seems to make no sense, does it? but, as @rubysmama said, there may be something to do with your disability that is making her leery. also, was she with another family before yours, and if so, could there be a possibility that it involved males that were not good to her?  i think that your wife should ensure she includes you in whatever she does when she is home that your cat likes to do with her. and, you might hate the idea, but perhaps you could wear your wife's perfume, body lotion, etc.?? check out your voices compared to one another - if yours is rougher/louder, you might try to tone it down some. also, if she speaks to the cat in baby language, repeat those terms with the cat. be involved when they are together, and make sure your wife talks/interacts with you while she talks/interacts with the cat. mimic actions/behaviors that your wife does that the cat responds to favorably. worth a shot anyway!  
 dude that makes me sad to hear honestly i feel bad for you. cats pick their people. it's not you, it's her .. any chance you could go to a rescue and meet some more cats, and perhaps find one that truly picks you as their person? might be on the first visit, or might take a few visits. could y'all just have two cats so you get at least one that loves you?   
 your mentioning disability got me thinking. my cats dislike my mother in law because she has a walker -- it is noisy. if your disability impacts your gait in any fashion, i imagine that could make you seem somewhat scary. another possibility -- did the change in the cat's attitude towards you happen after you went in for a hospital stay?  i feel like most of the time when this happens to people its hard to pinpoint the initial cause, but the error people make is not picking up on the change quickly enough, and trying to pick the cat up and cuddle it when, for whatever reason, it is temporarily wary of you. this alarms the cat. so it kind of snowballs on folks is my theory. i think the thing to do is you have to kind of treat the cat like a new addition, and approach it like your trying to form an initial bond.  
 good to meet, you, @paul a.  don't feel bad about taking it personally because it's frustrating and perplexing. has she always favored your wife over you, or is this something new that's only started up recently? (if it's new, a vet visit might be a good option because cats are delightfully weird in some ways, and sometimes the first sign of a health problem is a really random, really odd or weird change in behavior or how they act.) you mentioned something about her "sitting in a dark living room" and she bolts. is there a chance her eyesight isn't good, or she's simply startled by someone rustling around in a darkened room? maybe she associates your scent with this and it freaked her out a bit. the bigger, heavier clothes isn't a far stretch at all. i'm a cat guy by trade but have dogs, and have read about both species. i read once about some lady who got a dog in the spring time and when 8 or 9 months had passed, winter hit and she arrived home late in a big, hooded coat and the dog immediately bit her. once she took the coat off, the dog recognized her and was normal again.  could you describe (in whatever detail you want to get into) a normal day with you and your cat? is she a foodie, or does she graze? (if she's a food driven cat, i'd make sure you're the one in charge of feeding. if you put the food down and she runs, put the food down anyway and then walk off, you can mess the food up a little if you want to put your scent on it, let her explore it on her own terms.)  if you're feeling even the slightest bit of frustration or annoyance at her over this (doesn't make you a bad person, been there myself) do what you can to let it go and just ignore her while you're home alone. if she comes in a room, gives you an owl eyed stare and runs off, let her. most cats are curious. some cats are worried by someone who only wants to make them feel better and it makes them worse when it comes to hiding, etc. i'm no cat expert, just some guy on tcs, but i don't see this situation as hopeless.   
 i think there is a way to fix it - simply don’t feed your cat till she is hungry. when so, the only one human who can help her - is you. and of course she’ll come to you to ask for food. when it’s going to happen, give her a treat and pet her. do it for approximately 5 minutes, don’t forget to give her small treats. after 5 minutes you can feed her with normal portion of food. tell your family to not feed the cat at all. she must come to you for it. so, do the “ritual” every time you’re about to feed her. soon she will associate you with good emotions- pets and treats. even if she’s not hungry - she’ll give you attention eventually. that’s how cats are! i have two, and it worked for my youngest one, he was very shy and didn’t want to communicate with any member of my family!  
 another idea about the "standing around while she's eating" is emulating what your wife does when she's hanging around and not really paying attention to the cat. if she's on her phone, do that. if she's reading, watching tv, talking on the phone, do that. be around her, but don't look at her, don't speak to her, don't pet her, don't give her any reason to think you're "interested" in what she's doing, just be present.   
 that's wonderful progress! so happy for you.   
 yay! go mo! she must have loved those treats! progress indeed!!  
 ever notice when a person is chasing you, you ignore them, then when they chase someone else you automatically start chasing them?  this is strictly if it's cool with both you and your wife, but if everyone agrees it might be a good idea to keep the treats and special food coming from you, and only you for awhile.   
 how exciting! time and patience. do you have pics?   
 thank you, ill continue to do that. it doesn't bother me that she does it on me, the issue was that it became almost compulsive so i want to break the habit altogether as opposed to redirecting her elsewhere.  
 sorry the introductions aren't going as hoped. i wonder if you should try separating them, and doing a re-introduction?  how to fix an unsuccessful cat introduction  also, here's a new tcs article on how to introduce a kitten to an older cat that may be helpful.  
 hey! got some suggestions for you. first , get him checked to make sure there is no physical pain. when pain hits an animal they often don’t understand what caused it and they lash out at the nearest thing in the mistaken idea that this is what hurt them. it could be a bad tooth, urinary pain, arthritis or anything that strikes him. if he is physically okay i would then suggest you make sure that there are no male or female mating scents around. even if cats are fixed they can exhibit mating behavior. i see it a lot. scents trigger it.  cats also have a pecking order. the term top cat says it all. each group of cats has a ranking of who is top and then down from there. charlie may be trying to tell everyone, i was here first and i am top cat. when this is established with all, then he should relax. ( but i don’t think that is what is going on) now, a bit of a different thought that i have dealt with recently and previously. cats can get jealous of you devoting your attention to others. both people and cats. since i know a bit of your history i am thinking he has seen a lot of your time being spent on others. i am suggesting a form of jealousy or just feeling a bit neglected or lost in the shuffle. it happens. i have a female feral who never bit, scratched or exhibited any aggressive behavior before. she sleeps by my head. a young male sleeps beside me and a female at my feet. the male had come from an abusive situation and i had been giving him , much needed, snuggling and attention. the feral observed this for some time. i failed to notice the signs of her back turned , ears held down and twitching tail until she became aggressive. she was getting scary! she was really biting me. then it hit me that i had turned my attention to the young male every night and had stopped making a fuss over her. i started making a fuss over her again. at first she continued to bite and scratch as i petted her. i just spoke calmly to her and if she bit i told her no and put my hand down from petting but almost immediately resumed. i scratched behind her ears and under her chin where it was harder for her to bite. i persisted with her. over a period of about a week she stayed angry but then she gave in and started enjoying the attention again. she forgave me. she is back to being the sweet ,but wild, kitty she was. of the many, many kitties i have had in my life, i have never had one with an emotional upset that could not be solved. charlie may be trying to dominate you right now but i think you can fix this. i know you have the love and patience. respect him but don’t let him think you fear him. if it isn’t a physical problem causing pain then you have the power to beat this. i have every confidence in you. let me know how things are going. if i can calm a cat named thrasher, you can calm a cat named charlie. lol i really think it’s going to be okay. try some music.  
 i was thinking about you, and had the same thought that @jcatbird did, of music , but also of whether charlie-baby is hurting in some way...      
 chewing on his leg like that reminds me of birds that pluck out their feathers. it is a sign of distress. vet. behavior. i think these are your focus. maybe a little alone time with just charlie before bed until you get to the vet. relaxing time. i see he is often around mia. i assume it was originally just you two? maybe one space somewhere that is just for the two of you. even if you have to crawl in a big cardboard box with him and keep all others out of it. lol i frequently crawl in the carriers and cages with cats. not so bad!  that could be s good time to listen to music together. let him associate music with relaxing time with you.  as for the poop issue, i would check with the vet first but maybe a little olive oil in his food? not sure if this would be okay with ibd but a phone call might give you that answer from the vet. if you think there is any chance he could be dehydrated there is cat pedialyte. sometimes it isn’t the lack of water but an imbalance in other things in the body. you can actually drink too much water and wash out crucial nutrients. i have done that myself. my doc told me to back off the water a little! ha!   you just hang on. it takes time to fit all the puzzle pieces together. you’ll get there. if you get too tired we can just trade places for a day or two.  ( notice the innocent smile! )  
 kay so first off i might have missed a few things here and there because this is a long thread i didn't have time to read everything, but i read a lot. and i am here to try and help! it sounds like your cat is suffering quite a bit and that you might not be far from him developing something like spraying, once you try to integrate the other cats.  i think, yeah, a vet checkup is in order. also, please get him to try other foods. my poop is definitely affected by what i eat, isn't yours? ibd in humans can also improve with diet. if he's had this problem for as long as he's been eating that then maybe he needs to eat other things. try mixing it in very slowly? adding just a teaspoon of the new food into the old food until he eats it without a problem, and build it up by adding another teaspoon?  is he overweight?  dogs need to be walked. cats need to hunt and, there for, be played with every single day to be happy and healthy. and most of all so they can feel stress- and anxiety- free. what is his playtime routine like? are you switching up toys?  does he have daily rituals and routines? things that occur every single day? it's important for a cat's sense of security that he can predict what his day will look like; this could eliminate a lot of stress in a lot of cats when they can anticipate things like breakfast, dinner, snacktime, brushing and cuddling tme, play sessions, etc etc.  does he have window spots where he can wind down and watch outside for some cat tv?  enough scratching posts for marking territory? caves to hide in? tunnels to go in and out of? i'm not saying he needs all of those things but it's worthwhile to try out stuff like that and find out if that makes him feel more confident that he owns the territory.  because i think what you're describing is a very insecure cat that is seeing the gates of his territory being knocked down by more cats. but i could very much be wrong cause i havent seen him.  all i know from reading what you've described is that i feel bad for the little guy. he has a lot of things going on with him and it just makes me feel sad.  lastly i suggest the book cat mojo by jackson galaxy i recommend it to any cat person.   btw i laughed so hard at this:   i'll be following this thread!!   
 guys and gals - thank you so much and again - i am so sorry for the long posts. i'm just one of these folks that likes to make sure you have all the info to work with. it's why the cats have files. one called "the poop files" lol  charlie also has a heart condition - heart is at the upper limit of what his chest cavity can hold. the report said he is compensating well for it though. so that's something. most likely born this way.  i'll post some images too!  thank you xo i will look this up and put this and the pro-biotics on the list to explore and chat with the vet about.  i looked at the thunderease jacket and sadly charlie wouldn't tolerate it. this i am sure of. i can try a different brand like comfort zone and see how he does.  who is meezer? :-) another kitty?    furballsmom said: ↑  a metal can half filled with coins given a really hard shake? it's a sound that isn't associated with you like the clapping hands... c'mon, charlie - ease up and let that meezer personality get more  , and let your mama work with you and help you click to expand...  that's a great idea - it might be loud enough to snap him out of it. :-)  yes charlie - pleaseeeeee work with me!!!    jcatbird said: ↑  chewing on his leg like that reminds me of birds that pluck out their feathers. it is a sign of distress. vet. behavior. i think these are your focus.click to expand...  exactly what i thought. the vet thinks it's part of a food allergy but all his signs say different. it's that instinct thing we speak of. :-)  yup totally agree, vet again and work on his behavior. a focus and gathering a plan. :-)    jcatbird said: ↑  maybe a little alone time with just charlie before bed until you get to the vet. relaxing time. i see he is often around mia. i assume it was originally just you two? maybe one space somewhere that is just for the two of you. even if you have to crawl in a big cardboard box with him and keep all others out of it. lol i frequently crawl in the carriers and cages with cats. not so bad!  that could be s good time to listen to music together. let him associate music with relaxing time with you.click to expand...  more alone time we can make that happen. our bedtime routing i have made sure doesn't get disrupted at all. it's the one thing he can count on without fail. i'll add music too.  yes, originally it was just the charlies and i inside. plus all the outside ferals i care take. fyi his full legal name is "his royal majesty zombie charlie the 1st."  side story: zombie was his original name at the humane society when he was a kitten. i was suppose to foster / socialize and return as you can see - i kinda failed returning him. he nearly died from giardia more below...  lol @ crawling into a cage. picturing that - omg hilarious.    jcatbird said: ↑  as for the poop issue, i would check with the vet first but maybe a little olive oil in his food? not sure if this would be okay with ibd but a phone call might give you that answer from the vet. if you think there is any chance he could be dehydrated there is cat pedialyte. sometimes it isn’t the lack of water but an imbalance in other things in the body. you can actually drink too much water and wash out crucial nutrients. i have done that myself. my doc told me to back off the water a little! ha! click to expand...  olive oil now on the list for the vet :-) check!  he does drink a lot of water. he refused a bowl as a child so i bought him a fountain. it is a big hit! he does drink a lot - he pees - if there was a peeing contest - he has that hands down!  the giardia - the more i think - the more i keep coming back to this. he had a really bad uri and blood in his poop from the giardia. it's why he's a failed foster - when he was in the clean i couldn't let him go. he was (is) family. i've asked for his poop to be checked but it's never happened. it's dark and very light in spots. dark to me - is blood. at least that's what i've always been taught. none of the vets seem to want to check it. i think i will take a sample with me and insist very politely.    jcatbird said: ↑  you just hang on. it takes time to fit all the puzzle pieces together. you’ll get there. if you get too tired we can just trade places for a day or two.  ( notice the innocent smile! )click to expand...  it is like a puzzle isn't it? maybe once it's all done we'll get a full picture that we can use t create a beautiful masterpiece out of. :-)  that is a very kind offer of trading places. please do not be insulted when i say..... lol.    1 bruce 1 said: ↑  holy macaroni. just reading this...i need a nap!! about a week long!! this sounds like a tough situation for you, i'm so sorry. this must be stressful as heck.click to expand...  i am realllllly sorry *hides head in shame* *makes you a cup of tea*  first off, thank you for coming :-)  thank you for that as well. :-) it's been tough and stressful, yes, but i have you all as support and a non-judgy place to come where people don't look at you like you're nuts. i cannot express how invaluable that is. it lets me relax and i can focus on them instead of how not to shatter into a useless million pieces. this also helps as i'm not stressed around the cats. so not added badness.  now that mia and white label are no longer sitting on deaths door i can focus on charlie and keeping everyone happy and healthy.    1 bruce 1 said: ↑  our vet never officially "diagnosed" ibd with a scope. but they were 99.9% sure that's what he had based on his symptoms and long time gi upset and the amount of cats they've seen with the same on-going symptoms that respond well to ibd type treatments. he started at about 5 years old with noisy, room clearing diarrhea. you could see it, smell it, and hear it coming out (yeah, gross. really gross.) this went on, on and off, for years without no real "reason" as to why he'd be fine for weeks then suddenly be having instances where watery crap was at human eye level on the wall. a few years ago it changed paths and one day he refused to get up to eat, so i picked him up. it's where i came up with "torpedo butt", because his rear end felt like someone had shoved a small traffic cone, base end first, up his butt. off to the vet (not calmly) and we were fearing some horrible tumor but it was just impacted crap that needed removed by hand (poor vet) so that was done. his anal glands were also messed up. this happened a few times until we were able to decide what foods he could not have. -raw meaty bones. no. everyone else, a yes but for him, no. -raw plain meat. still a big no. -any dehydrated anything, even if we dropped 1/8 of a teaspoon into the pacific ocean and let it re-hydrate for a week. -kibble. some ibd cats seem to do well with nothing other than but him, no. -cows milk or cow dairy anything. what does work -wet food, most varieties. -pate is preferred because of the low carb load in most brands. * -organ meats and tripe, all raw. -small doses of raw (unpasteurized, un-homogenized, un-screwed with by man basically) goats milk.  (* the carb thing gets me wondering about inflammatory responses, which would point to not only ibd, but the asthma both boys share as well as charlies perhaps licking at his leg/dry skin. not science stuff but just a thought.)click to expand...  thank you - this helps a lot.  charlie is on wet food. wellness. pate. 3 times a day. he's not a free feeder. the carbs look okay on that. he gets a handful of dry food at bedtime. royal canin gastrointestinal fiber response. though i am reading about that lately that it's not good food and it has a chicken main ingredient. *sighs* he refused all treats until last year when i made one more try at it and he loves the freeze dried salmon from purbites.  if i take those away - he's going to kill me - if i ever do that i will leave you with my address so that you can call the police to retrieve my cold dead body. lol  you and i may be onto something with the similarities with the kids. science starts with observation. :-)    1 bruce 1 said: ↑  still, this guy usually craps every 2 days or so. it ranges from crumbly hard, to resembling half-dried pudding (if you're eating pudding right now i apologize with all my heart, lol) or little drops of cow pie stuff or a single hard meter long cannon ball. i don't get it. colostrum is helping him a little, we think. if he's crumbly, a little raw beef, chicken liver and maybe a little chicken heart or two seems to help be a laxative. sometimes we don't feed these things at all but he still manages pudding pop butt. it's why i've lost a lot of my hair lately.   click to expand...  yup lol that's charlie!  [email protected] torpedo butt, pudding butt and the loss of hair ommg *falls over laughing*    1 bruce 1 said: ↑  behavior wise, he doesn't have the anger or aggression issues. he's actually annoyingly charming and kind of a hippie because he will do anything to keep everyone peaceful and happy. but he does get stressed easily but he hides it well. i've noticed some of the signs (he does certain things and lays in certain hiding places). 9 out of 10 of my animals that show this level of aggression for little reason have had slight things going on with their liver. i'm not talking liver cancer or liver failure, but it's always kind of weirded me out a little that most of them show the same symptoms when this is brewingclick to expand...  charlie charms everyone - they think he's a lovely cat. when i tell them what he does - they think i'm nuts. like it can't possibly be true... and he is often a loving cat. i've not ruled out metal illness to be honest.   his full w"wellness" blood test are all coming back perfect - but i am not apposed to having a specific live blood test done. i've added that to the list.    1 bruce 1 said: ↑  he has hyperesthesia, and it causes him to twitch (the skin) on his back, get a glassy eyed stare with dilated pupils, lash out, and go after his rear end in an aggressive, obsessive way.click to expand...  o,o chalrie does that! his skin often twitches and then he goes after his tail like he has no idea what it is!    1 bruce 1 said: ↑  what is charlies "general" expression, just curious? is generally bright eyed, clear eyed, or does he have a glassy look about him, or does he routinely have that "not well in the eyes" squint?  hang in there. we' click to expand...  generally varies from bright eye'd to squinting. he has white/blue eyes and i image sensitive to light.  i have pictures from tonight!  how he sits sometimes. (and yes that is a small dog bed)    you can see his bottom lip issue in this one. it started up again this last week:     these next two are how he usually sleeps. although often he is fully stretched out.   an hour later:    mia wanted her picture too.  so here she is:     1 bruce 1 said: ↑  hang in there. we're all in this cat obsession thing together.  (ps if there's anything else i can help with just tag me like you did earlier. sometimes my notifications pop the clutch and don't come through immediately!)  edit: i can't resist mentioning this because it will maybe give you a laugh. when he first was constipated and the vet said he'd need an enema, i was relieved enough that it wasn't some giant colon tumor or something horrible, so i signed the paper admitting him into the animal hospital. when the vet picked him and held him towards me and said "say "see you later!" " in a cheerful tone to the cat, i ruffled the cats ears a little and said "well, bud, this is what i get for telling you for over a decade that you're full of shit." vet laughed. hard. click to expand...  hanging in :-) i'm in great company!  lol that is awesome omg lmao!    elfilou said: ↑  kay so first off i might have missed a few things here and there because this is a long thread i didn't have time to read everything, but i read a lot. and i am here to try and help! it sounds like your cat is suffering quite a bit and that you might not be far from him developing something like spraying, once you try to integrate the other cats.click to expand...  hi @elfilou thank you for coming :-) and yes - sorry it is rather long.   spraying being his next think crossed my mind. i'm pretending he loves me enough to skip that step and stick to biting me. this is one of the thousand reason i'm going like a snail with braveheart and white label as i think it will send of over the edge right now. i'll be too much.     elfilou said: ↑  i think, yeah, a vet checkup is in order. also, please get him to try other foods. my poop is definitely affected by what i eat, isn't yours? ibd in humans can also improve with diet. if he's had this problem for as long as he's been eating that then maybe he needs to eat other things. try mixing it in very slowly? adding just a teaspoon of the new food into the old food until he eats it without a problem, and build it up by adding another teaspoon?  is he overweight?click to expand...  i've been trying to get him to eat other foods for nearly three years off and on. i've added as little as 1/8th of a tsp and he knowsssssssssssss. he'll refuse. i can trick him for a day or two by sprinkling parmaseam cheese on top, or a couple of broken bits of his salmon treats but that quickly fails.  one time it was so bad he stopped eating fully stop. i ended up putting more that a 1/2 dozen various foods out, including his usual and sat there crying begging him to eat something. it was aweful.  his vet wasn't surprised as he is that stubborn.  i am going to try again though. i've found a few more options that he might go for. going to do it differently this time.  no - he's no overweight, he is a large cat though length wise - and very long legs.    elfilou said: ↑  dogs need to be walked. cats need to hunt and, there for, be played with every single day to be happy and healthy. and most of all so they can feel stress- and anxiety- free. what is his playtime routine like? are you switching up toys?click to expand...  i have a massive box of toys - he loves to shreed some one them, his favorites. laser and wands also a favorite - though he really enjoys biting the ends of the wands off so i'm careful.  he likes hard fast play - which - because of his heart i've been told i have to be careful with.  i've bought all sorts of automatic toys - he's so-so on them. sometimes yes, sometimes no. mostly no.  i'm excited as i ordered some a few types of these:      i plan on getting a bit container of water and seeing if they excite him. i really hope so! they should arrive very soon.  lately we have not had enough playtime. this is for sure. i'm correcting that.     elfilou said: ↑  does he have daily rituals and routines? things that occur every single day? it's important for a cat's sense of security that he can predict what his day will look like; this could eliminate a lot of stress in a lot of cats when they can anticipate things like breakfast, dinner, snacktime, brushing and cuddling tme, play sessions, etc etc.  does he have window spots where he can wind down and watch outside for some cat tv?  enough scratching posts for marking territory? caves to hide in? tunnels to go in and out of? i'm not saying he needs all of those things but it's worthwhile to try out stuff like that and find out if that makes him feel more confident that he owns the territory.click to expand...  yes. some routine vary but nighttime routine i always make sure is stable.  feeding time is the same. when i wake up, when i come home from work and when we go to bed.  playtime does vary but i can get up a bit earlier and make that happen before i go to work.  he has a window seat (bed) and a bird feeder right outside it. he loves that.  he has another bed in the livingroom that is a dome he goes in, plus a kitty tree.  this one:    he loves the hammock!  downstairs by the computer he has another bed like the one he's pictured in above.  he is the first one to be fed, and i make sure i make a fuss of him when i get home from work. i don't go see or feed the others until he is fed and we have a few minutes together for greetings and pets and love.    elfilou said: ↑  because i think what you're describing is a very insecure cat that is seeing the gates of his territory being knocked down by more cats. but i could very much be wrong cause i havent seen him.  all i know from reading what you've described is that i feel bad for the little guy. he has a lot of things going on with him and it just makes me feel sad.  lastly i suggest the book cat mojo by jackson galaxy i recommend it to any cat person.click to expand...  he does fit the description of an insecure cat - but i can't figure out why he would be. other than the amount of outside cats in the area and i can't really fix that. (he was like this long before these three girls came inside. the violence just became worse this last week - a whole new level of insane.)  i feel bad for him too. really bad. the last thing i want is to save the other kitties and have something bad befall him as a result.  when i had to bring in the outside kitties i can fully admit i was concerned the behavior would worsen - i hoped if i did things slow - followed what i should etc be would be okay.  i will look into the book.  thank you so much for taking the time to help.    1 bruce 1 said: ↑  never really thought about it much but i suppose some cats are like this. an elderly persian (my guess) will need less than a 6 month old bengal (or snowshow, that may murder you while you sleep.  just joking but aren't i kind of right, @1catovertheline ?) but i wonder if this guy isn't one of those rare natural active leader types that needs to be ran and needs to hunt things on strings until he's content.  i don't know. even if i was a vet (which i'm not) and even if i were there with you right now (which i'm not), i find charlie's situation interesting enough to want to know what happens. hoping for good news.click to expand...  i do think he needs more activities but a lot of things disinterest him. it has to be with a person to - he is no content at all playing by himself. i think he is bored but rejects a lot of toys. i'll take a picture of his toy box. lol.  he like the round scratcher thing with a ball it in. liek this one:    thank you for hoping for good news. :-) i want him happy and healthy. i know it can be done and i'm willing to do what it takes to make sure he gets there.  it makes me so sad to see that lonely, lost look in his eyes. like somethings not quite right but he can't tell me in words and i'm lost trying to figure it out.   xoxoxoxoxo to you all. we will make charlie happy! we can do this!  edit to add: if i'm too late for dinner at all - or if he decides he is hungry off time - he will act up until he gets something. (not often) but hop on a counter and start knocking things off, bite cables. etc. he lets me know in that special way only a cat can lol   
 yeah - imagine all of us standing there right beside you.  oh, by the way, i added to the "meezer" post just above lol, sorry about that, we cross-posted.   
 oh, and charlie is such a handsome fellow, and mia is such a sweetie!!  i've been in your exact situation of opening can after can and being near tears because it's scary, confusing and so frustrating, getting side-eye from the rest of the household about all that food, and meanwhile the cat is still sitting there saying mom, i'm hungry. geez.  but we finally found a happy medium, well, happy for him, medium for me in that he gets a food he likes that's one that i don't, and a couple of others that we both like  and i am sure that you will be able to do so as well.   
 @jcatbird @furballsmom @1 bruce 1 @elfilou @basschick again i apologize for not being able to fully reply to you all in full - it's coming. :-) brace your eyes for that later! (i'm almost done writing that.)  in the meantime here's the update of last night:  we had a seriously violent attack again last night. the same time and location in the home as last time. (and the attempted minor one before that.)my heart breaks for charlie.  since he hasn't reacted this way with other guests, i have to conclude that it's something surrounding her. now while he can get violent with me on occasion - it's never ben like this. had his nails not been trimmed up he'd have taken out a chunk of my cheek last night - and possibly an eye.  she arrived around 9 pm. (last time it was a few hours earlier) charlie was a bit standoffish but appeared okay. everything was fine until around 11 when we were getting ready for bed. he followed her up the stairs to the spare room and was attacking her in there a bit - and when she stepped out in the hall - boom! that's the exact location and time period as last time and the minor time before that.  there was no stopping him. we tried having her to back down, saying "no!" with purpose but nothing that might frighten him. he appeared scared of her when she said "no!" but he still went for blood. it's interesting to note that when i do the "no!"he doesn't react frighten. this cat is focused when he is like this. serious focus. he bit right through her jeans and drew blood. small - but still.  he went downstairs to mia - and i had to bring him back upstairs - i picked him up he hissed at me and punched me in the face with his claws twice. it was like boxing - with a 1,2 in face. a quick left / right. when i got him to the kitchen he started to walk into the livingroom hissing and angry.  he had to spend the night locked in my room with me to be sure everyone was safe.  when he was in my room. he looked - oddly calm and soft and he was a good kitty all night. in the morning he rubbed against me - scented me and the pillows. my "perfect" charlie.  now this kind of level of violence is not normal for him. does he attack my leg sometimes as he did her - yes. this bad - no - not even close. hissing and carrying on - no. it's what he does to me but extremely intensified. it even takes me a-back and i'm used to him turning on me.  
 i'm so sorry you all had to go through this   and it does sound like he's terrified of her, and cats defend themselves if they can't escape what they're afraid of. to him, the scary person is in his territory, so he can't get away - he must protect himself.   if she comes over again - and if i were she, i wouldn't considering the situation - can charlie stay in your room for the evening?  
 sounds like puzzle pieces may be coming together and the stress factor will be over for her and everyone involved very soon. that will be great. take a deep breath. i know you tend to hold it so no more of that! relax and know that things settle. otherwise we are back to the cats picking you up off the floor again!   a little tea for you might help too!  
 yes, charlie is very, very smart. he's exceptionally aware of things and that super keen sense of smell is, i'm sure, both a blessing and a curse for him. he's also very sensitive.  lol i do call charlie insane, but in reality, i know it's me not understanding what he wants / needs. you're right - he's talking - i'm not getting it quite right yet. i need to take a close look at the subtle things he is expressing. they are there - i have to learn to see and understand them.  big mac sounds like charlie - a kitty with his own way - and own terms. they say to us "there are rules. obey" lol @ mouse jokes. i bet he is laughing!  xo to mac for his leukemia positive.  i promise not to eat anything in my cereal bowl that looks like pudding... ewwww. lol  i'm glad you liked the pictures!     jcatbird said: ↑  my daughter could not speak. because she also had limited movement i learned to understand her needs through her actions and body language. that spoke volumes. her health had to be read as well. charlie is talking to you. read his actions, health indicators and body language. we already know your instincts are great. read him as you have done the others. trust yourself. it will all come together. and don’t eat anything in your cereal bowl that looks like pudding. sorry. you can thank 1bruce1 for putting that in my brain. it totally cracked me up.click to expand...  it's amazing that you learned to do that with your daughter. you're right - i need to learn this with charlie.  lol yup @1 bruce 1 that is a visual i'm not going to forget lmao. hilarious!    jcatbird said: ↑  love, love, love the pictures! such beautiful kitties. i totally get their pursonalities from the pics.  citrus spray outside keeps cats away. anything lemon or orange. i sometimes resort to pledge furniture polish outside around my door. cats hate it. keeps the ferals from spraying there.click to expand...  thank you and kitteis say thank you.  i can try the furniture polish.    basschick said: ↑  you say charlie drinks and pees a lot? has he had kidney testing done? that's the main symptoms for humans and pets of kidney issues, whether caused by diabetes or not. it might be good to get a recheck just to rule it out.  hk had some of those symptoms you described, and it turned out he's highly allergic to fleas. he sometimes had convulsions - which our vet misdiagnosed - and will fiercely attack during those. is it possible you have a few fleas in the house?click to expand...  hi @basschick! yes, he drinks a lot and pees equally. he has not had specific kidney testing done, but, he does get the wellness testing that has complete bloodwork. i can certainly ask the vet if there is one we can do that hones in on the kidneys and liver. (i just put this on my list.) his most recently blood work show some differences in some areas, improvements, though, no changes have been made to his diet because - he won't let me. the only small change was he went from refusing any treats of any kind, to trying, and liking, purbites salmon freeze dried.  where there are cats, there is always flea possibilities. i haven't seen any and mia, brave heart, white label, and charlie were all treated in july. a three month dose for the girls, a one month for charlie, which i will be giving another dose the first week in october. there is very little carpet in the house - a few throw rugs of various sizes - but, fleas are little crafty things. i did that water and soap bowl thing and caught no fleas - but again - crafty little buggers. i've checked the cats too and they seem clean. is there another way i can check?  is there something safe i can put on the through rugs to ensure we are flea-less?    furballsmom said: ↑  oh, and charlie is such a handsome fellow, and mia is such a sweetie!!  i've been in your exact situation of opening can after can and being near tears because it's scary, confusing and so frustrating, getting side-eye from the rest of the household about all that food, and meanwhile the cat is still sitting there saying mom, i'm hungry. geez.  but we finally found a happy medium, well, happy for him, medium for me in that he gets a food he likes that's one that i don't, and a couple of others that we both like  and i am sure that you will be able to do so as well. click to expand...  charlie and mia say thank you. :-)  yup - that sucks, not only can't you get them to try anything but then people are looking at you like you're nuts and kitty is all like "you're starving meeeeeee. how could you mom! " and no one gets it. so you sit there all defeated.  lol @ happy for him medium for you. that's a big win really.   a stubborn cat can nearly out-stubborn any human on the planet.    furballsmom said: ↑    @basschick see, this is what's so terrific about this site, is all the truly excellent input from people like you!click to expand...  don't forget to include you in that! xo without you all - i don't know where i'd be right now. seriously.    elfilou said: ↑  oh yeah you're very right! every cat is a case on its own, but as a general rule i'd say try 15 minutes every day and go from there. some cats will fully engage and 15 minutes won't be enough, some don't feel like it every day but most days - some cats just track with their heads and watch the prey forever until finally pouncing after 10 minutes. some elderly cats don't pounce at all and just track the prey or are perfectly content watching the youngsters play. every cat is different, but we can all agree we're dealing with predators who have an innate drive to kill stuff - if they're allowed all day long. it's not just a physical need, it's mental too.click to expand...   unfortunately - none of them are getting 15 minutes daily right now and i see that as a problem. w.l and charlie seem to be the two that need it the most. i need to reschedule myself somehow to make that happen    elfilou said: ↑  thanks for your replies and i don't blame you at all for taking in the other cats. i can feel you want the best for all of them and i admire that. i will definitely try to keep up and help with any problems you run into along the way.click to expand...  thank you :-)  i do want the best for them. i've had to take them in much sooner than expected. i thought that about 8 they would be ready - as - well age would perhaps help them to realize indoors is goooddd! i was in the middle of prepping for a house re-wire when everything fell apart for them. poor things. i stopped it all and decided they needed to be first priority.  thank you. now doubt i'll run into a lot!    elfilou said: ↑  you mentioned him being picky or disinterested with toys and that is definitely a struggle. my elf gets very easily bored with toys. i got a "tabby tiger" rod, it comes with a feather toy but you can take the feather toy off and switch it up. for elfie i've noticed she will only go for very small ground prey. a rat-sized thing she will go after but if it's any bigger she won't. the smaller the better. my other cat liked his prey a little bigger and he just, in general, isn't as picky with the toys. elfie needs everything to be as realistic as possible and if i pull out the same toy more than twice a week she will get bored with it very quick.  anyway. i buy one new toy attachment for the tabby tiger rod maybe once a month or once every two months so it doesn't get too expensive. i'm not sure where you can buy all of these things in the us but i buy from purrfectdesign in belgiumclick to expand...  he is everything picky. toys, food, treats - you name it - he'll find a reason   i like the rods - so does he. i found him a new one with a wire and one cluster of feathers - that seems to be a win! the ends looks like a lot like something i can change out - similar to what you suggested. :-)  i'm in canada but i live right beside the boarder for my usa neighbours! like right there *points* :-) literally a few minutes drive to the boarder. i could walk there and have done!     1 bruce 1 said: ↑  i've been stewing on this all day on and off, and i think your suggestion of a shake can is a really good one and you make a good point about not associating it with hands, etc. i keep thinking this through and if @feralhearts, if you do use a sound interrupter, with charlie's intensity, be absolutely sure your timing is perfect. if he's 100% fixated on her, this might backfire, and the sound might send him into an attack mode vs. interrupting. the last thing you want is him associating a cat he already doesn't like with some loud noise. most cats (and most dogs) respond to this interrupter by being interrupted (and re-directed) but a few of the more intense dogs i know don't. if they're fixated on another dog, and the owner tries to interrupt with noise or pulling on their collar, it backfires and they lunge. just another thought to consider.click to expand...  true as he does get fixated - he does the same with mia. it's like nothing exists outside of them. it's like he's not even there.   he does hate loud noises to start with. i can try a light shake. like one or two and see if that breaks his concentration. he has redirected his anger onto me the once or twice i've successful broke his focus on mia. i get a really hard bite and a hiss.  i have to say hearing him his is such a weird thing. all the years, until mia - never did he his. well - once - after he got outside and they beat him up. i got him back in - well - he ran back in like he was shot fro ma cannon - he hissed at me when i tried to approach to make sure he was okay. that was the only time.     1 bruce 1 said: ↑  we all want charlie to succeed!click to expand...  yay!!!!!!!!!!!!! thank you! :-) it takes tcs community to raise a child - i mean kitty cat(s).     furballsmom said: ↑  i remember i was overnight cat-sitting for someone some time ago, and was playing with one of the two cats (the second, shy one, ended up sleeping on me. i thought that was so sweet ).  anyway, mr dominant alpha-type got irritated with me (i was admittedly being a bit of a smarty), and i got a no-claws smack on my hand.  it's really impressive how much oomph they can get into their swing and hit lol we oughta sign 'em up for baseball tryouts click to expand...  aweeeee.  lol too true! it so is impressive how much strength these little creatures have when they feel they need to.  @baseball tryouts. can you imagine!   
 for whatever reason - my whole post didn't go... (probably length epps)  thank you! i've thought about you all daily too but i've not had time to finish any post i tried to make.  here's an update:  charlie hasn't tried to kill anyone lately. my brother even came to stay for a few days and not one attack. he still goes for me when he's frustrated etc but normal attack not super psycho kitty attack. so sadly once again - that goes for that it's somehow my friend. :-(  charlie unintentionally saw braveheart and white label. there was no aggression though. the blanket swap - he could careless.  white label and braveheart however - different story. braveheart is scared of his blanket. white label however kicks it around with her feet, licks it, suckles it, plays with it, bites it and snuggles with it. not sure if that's a good or a bad sign.  i'm now feeding them behind each side of the gate with a towel. do that for another week? longer? when i was doing it with the mock wall between - bh, w.l and charlie were all right against it - no negative reactions. tonight will be the first time with the gate and towel.  mia is slowllyy coming out of her safe room. her motivation - food. i'm moving her food an inch at a time outside the saferoom. it's going okay - but slow.   
 go mia kitty!!  "don't forget to include you in that!" i'm glad i can help in any way   ummm, maybe another week? this made me think of the phrase "the best laid plans of mice and men" lol, but being that there have been no negative reactions, i think that another week gives you a little more assurance without spending time at it that you might not have to. and then at that point a week from now i think you'll be able to tell if you need more time...  
 [/quote]  the fish game thing is really, really cool where'd you get the phony (are they phony? they look real!) fish? i have a sink obsessed one that might think this is funny. he's a rather odd duck...had him since 6 weeks or so and at 5 years he's all "no touch." he's like stewart from madtv. and yes, dear god the splinters. once they were installed i pretty much took a bath consisting of 99% drawing salve, but my "ideas" usually get the best of me.  i like to think i'm handy, but really i'm just entertainment.   
 the fishes - i bought three kinds - only two came today but they are not good quality at all. now that i know it might interest him i will look for better ones.  i think if i tossed an old water fountain pump in the water to make them move - that would do it too lol.  1.   2.   3.   so far 3 and 1 came today. waiting on 2.  [email protected] think you're handy... sounds like me. i'm about to learn to use a jigsaw - with supervision - for a kitty project. so far the reaction has been "she's going to try what! okay - please tell me someone will be standing with her!" i'd be insulted if i didn't know they were right.  
 lol!  i hope you try it and they like it!  must keep the kitty happy. bad things happen if kitty unhappy.  i've never understood people where their cats are just this creature they feed and who occupies space in their house. sure - i'm glad they gave the kitty a home but i wish they realized that they aren't some fixture like a table. people i think are taught that cats are low maintenance and- can "entertain and take care of themselves" and to some degree that can be true - but not all the time. makes me sad when i see that.  my vet laughs - when it was just charlie and i - i say to her.... i'm a low maintenance person with a high maintenance cat - how did this happen?   lol well at least you use to be sharp? ;-)   
 awesome! i found the book not only helpful, but also funny and beautifully illustrated! i even shed tears at a few chapters toward the end.  and the fish look awesome. even if it might've looked like they were minimally interested, if you pull them out of the attic every week/month or so it may re-spark their interest. both of my cats particularily like "videos for cats to watch" on youtube. the mice are favourites. they don't bat at the screen at all (thankfully) but just tracking it with their eyes and "mind-hunting" for 10 minutes is imo very good for them!  i love the effort you're putting in    
 the horse is a great reference!  i don't think what you say is cold - it's a truth people need to hear and understand. those that care - will get it.    elfilou said: ↑  awesome! i found the book not only helpful, but also funny and beautifully illustrated! i even shed tears at a few chapters toward the end.  and the fish look awesome. even if it might've looked like they were minimally interested, if you pull them out of the attic every week/month or so it may re-spark their interest. both of my cats particularily like "videos for cats to watch" on youtube. the mice are favourites. they don't bat at the screen at all (thankfully) but just tracking it with their eyes and "mind-hunting" for 10 minutes is imo very good for them!  i love the effort you're putting in click to expand...  it is funny and the art is great too! yes. i'm seeing thing in the book and nodding with big yups - screwed that up - yup - been down that road - yup. i'm also understanding charlie a little better and why he might be doing some things he is. mostly my fault. in fact probably all of it require more changes on my part than his. i can do that for him.  thank you for the recommend! i really like the book a lot. every cat caretaker should get one when they adopt.  the fish are hilarious. i will bring them out once a week as something different for him and i to do together.  i almost have a schedule for play for him - it's not quite as good as i'd like it but we'll get there. i'm noticed him a little more confident than he's been in recent months - so that's a win.  thank you - i am trying very hard. i really want the kitties to be happy and health. the best life possible for them. i don't mind the effort if it makes that possible for them. the hope id that one day they see that they are home. that they feel it in every whisker and every hair. this is family and this is home.  braveheart was drugged last night and this am for her vet visit. gapapentin for the win! i hated doing that to her but after what happened last time - it really was best for us both. she was calm enough that i only have one war wound instead of 50. the kind vet agreed we could give her her rabies shot a few weeks early to avoid stressing her further but the best news is the clean bill of health!  mia took progressed too. i was so excited. she came out of her safe room 5 times on sat night and played with me outside it!! then sunday she made it all the way upstairs, through the kitchen and peeked into the living room. it lasted only 30 seconds - but i will take that as a woo freakin woo!!!! she's not left the room at all today - but still. i'll hold onto sat and sunday.  i have charlies last two bloodwork results and heart file ready to go for this coming monday - along with a list of observations, possible symptoms and some questions. on one hand - i'm very very looking forward to having him looked at with fresh eyes. i'm really hoping for nothing, or something minor. on the other hand - can't say i'm not scared they'll find something bad.  i read on another site about someone who's cat always had black looking poop too and they are on the same food charlie is. (wellness wet pate- he will only eat turkey or turkey and salmon, he did each chicken years ago and loves it but the vet thought he might have allergy - she thought chicken - so that was axed. i have him on a small handful of royal canin gastrointestinal fiber response every night before bed (chicken it that scratches head*). he also eats a handful of i really think i need to change his food but the last several times i've tried - he's literally starved himself - no exaggeration or joke.  i really really want to have him more like the girls - they will eat a variety of flavors and brands. i can mix it up easy. very few things they've shown a dislike for.   
 ah, charlie you tough little fighter, hang in there!!  
 just to mention and support regarding music, there are more and more shelters putting in speakers so they can have music throughout their buildings to help reduce stress. it pays out in so many ways, reduced stress means better resistance to disease, better adoption results, it's such a win-win. musicforcats . com is a different approach to it than harp music but is still viable   
 goodness what a saga.  ....wait wait, charlie, not that kind of fighter  .   
 lol yup - that's why his nicknames are "my little jerk" and "resident badass"    jcatbird said: ↑  you mentioned charlie being upset in the car. maybe music there too would help.click to expand...  *sigh* why did i not think of this!?  i think every cat caretaker, be it adoption by normal means, ferals adopting you etc. should all come with two things.  the total cat mojo book and a link to this site inscribed in the book that reads:  "welcome to insanity. here is your cat bible and here is a link to the site with smart, kind people that will keep you sane."     jcatbird said: ↑  i hope you all get a break now. you deserve it. you really are great with your fur babies. they are very lucky to have you. i will try to send tons of peaceful vibes your way. sleep..... sleeeep!click to expand...  soonnn sonnn...  zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz   
 guilt? i can understand the panic and fear, but why are you feeling guilt? do you have any idea how many otherwise nice people out there would euthanize a cat showing a "problem" or dump them at the shelter, thinking every family in the northern hemisphere is itching to adopt an adult cat with health problems? cry, be upset, be sad, be afraid, but you have no reason to feel guilty. you're going above the call of duty. replace that guilt with a bit of quiet "just between you and him" knowledge that you're doing all you can... and pride.    
 people would actually do that to their furry family???!  guilt if it's caused by the stress from the feral i had to bring in.  guilt for being too passive when telling the vet about his poop all these years and not pushing even though the blood work came back fine.  did i do this? did i fail to see something?  he jumped the gate a few months ago - first time in his life and looked a bit hurt. i waited and after a day or two he appeared fine. did he / does he have an internal injury from that and i didn't take it serious?  he has a plastic water fountain - i clean it weekly / bi-weekly depending on how it appears. should i have done it more? is this bacteria build up in his system because of that? (btw i noticed cleaning it tonight the plastic is slightly degrading - i tossed it and ordered him a drink well 360 that is stainless steel - there is plastic on the top - but i think that should be okay.)  should i have kept trying with the food - even though he was starving himself. did i give up too soon changing it?  am i feeding him too much salmon with his food being a lot of salmon (salmon and turkey) and treats (salmon)?  guilt - loads of guilt.  i will try to curb that. i had to stay outside for a bit tonight and cry and get centered before i came in to see him. trying hard to be zen for the babies.    really though i cannot thank you guys/gals enough. i am so very very grateful.   
 huge hugs! @1 bruce 1 is right! no guilt! the true cat loves tend to do that to themselves. we second guess ourselves when the sad fact is, we are only human. we cannot see the future or work magic. we simply do our best and trust in our faith and instincts. you have been doing amazing things with these cats. you have come as close to working magic as a human can. i know that nagging feeling is hard to push away. it’s the unknown that pulls at our hearts. turn to the known. we know the love, the care, the work, the tenderness the will power and all else you have poured forth. we know you have been near to falling flat on your face with stress and exhaustion. the known is that you have put forth more than any one person. you have done the work of multiples. i have been following all the kitties a long time now and you have no reason to ever feel guilt. not to sell anyone short here who helped, the moral support and tips often keep me going too, but you have saved these cats. you sought out the help, knowledge advice and medical care. without you, we would not have existed in their lives. you are the hero here. remember the music from before? remeber my joke when you said you were holding your breath that the cats would be using the puffer on you and forming a cat circle to raise you from the floor? that was all because of the huge amount of love and care you put out. huge! amor vincit omnia is a latin phrase that a friend and i share. it means , love conquers all. if anything can be conquered, you have done it with love. trust that. know it in your heart. you have done that already.  they feel loved and are loved.  
 y e s!!    feralhearts said: ↑  if he sees me to do he will refuse his foodclick to expand...  ...just almost too smart, geez!    feralhearts said: ↑  mia made it all the way to the dining room last night.click to expand...  go mia baby!!    feralhearts said: ↑  but now is bright-eyed, playing and breathing great on her own!click to expand...  this is an amazing story all on it's own - w.l. you have a truly awesome mama!!!   
 when i was younger, i had a cat that ate dry food. when she was 19, she began losing weight but i thought "whatever, she's old" and went on with it. it wasn't a lack of caring, it was a lack of knowing when they act off and unwell, something is off and they are unwell. one day i got home and she was taking one step, squatting, crying out, and leaving drops of blood on the floor.  the vet we had at the time suspected end stage kidney failure, as she wasn't eating well and had lost so much weight. i chose to end her suffering, due to her age and her weight/health status being so bad.  i still have her inked paw print and a little lock of her hair in my dresser drawer, after all those years decades eras you know what this old fart means.  she was the beginning of the obsession. losing her (what i thought) so quickly (even though she'd lived a good, long life) made me become almost unhealthily neurotic with noticing things, or trying to notice things. which then lead to many frantic middle-of-the-night calls to my very patient vet because my cat threw up bile, my cat threw up food, my cat threw up something unidentifiable, the dog wouldn't get up when i said "treat", etc. one of my big dogs one night scarfed down an m&m and i called the vet in panic thinking he was going to die. he was fine. they all were! this cat wasn't affectionate. she bit me, clawed me, didn't want to be held or pet, and would slap me if i even looked at her wrong, but she was mine at the time, and i enjoyed living with something so independent and not afraid to give me the cold shoulder if i screwed up bad. (it prepared me for being married... just a joke of course. )  wife if you read this please no divorce papers. all in all, we do the best we can with what we have at the time. you have what sounds like a good vet, loads of support here, and your own knowledge that will grow by miles with this experience alone.   
 update: i posted in another thread but wanted you guys/gals to see this too:  i managed to get a clean sample this morning and rushed it down to the vet. i was shocked at the dark brown cloud it was. in the litter box it always simply looked a slight darker yellow - not different than normal.  so the  vet called a few minutes ago - on a scale of 1 -4 - the blood is now a 4. i go tomorrow to pick up some pain killers for him. very mild. they can be used on kittens too, to help ease him until we can sort out what's going on.  we've sent it in to see if they can make bacteria grow. 3-5 days. if yes - anti-biotics - if no - ultrasound time as he has too much poop (x-ray) to see if there are stones etc.  yeah there is big terror in me now and extreme worry. i know what to look for over the next few days of waiting.   way too smart - and apparently shows very little no no signs of pain. that's a big problem. his new nickname is "tough guy"    furballsmom said: ↑  y e s!!  go mia baby!!click to expand...  i'm pretty proud of her efforts. :-) she's slowly getting there.    furballsmom said: ↑  this is an amazing story all on it's own - w.l. you have a truly awesome mama!!!click to expand...  thank you xoxox    1 bruce 1 said: ↑  when i was younger, i had a cat that ate dry food. when she was 19, she began losing weight but i thought "whatever, she's old" and went on with it. it wasn't a lack of caring, it was a lack of knowing when they act off and unwell, something is off and they are unwell. one day i got home and she was taking one step, squatting, crying out, and leaving drops of blood on the floor. the vet we had at the time suspected end stage kidney failure, as she wasn't eating well and had lost so much weight. i chose to end her suffering, due to her age and her weight/health status being so bad. i still have her inked paw print and a little lock of her hair in my dresser drawer, after all those years decades eras you know what this old fart means. click to expand...  19 is such a great age. i would have chosen the same path for her. it's a kindness imho.    1 bruce 1 said: ↑  she was the beginning of the obsession. losing her (what i thought) so quickly (even though she'd lived a good, long life) made me become almost unhealthily neurotic with noticing things, or trying to notice things. which then lead to many frantic middle-of-the-night calls to my very patient vet because my cat threw up bile, my cat threw up food, my cat threw up something unidentifiable, the dog wouldn't get up when i said "treat", etc. one of my big dogs one night scarfed down an m&m and i called the vet in panic thinking he was going to die. he was fine. they all were!click to expand...  this sounds like the road i'm about to be on.  i'm close.    1 bruce 1 said: ↑  .  this cat wasn't affectionate. she bit me, clawed me, didn't want to be held or pet, and would slap me if i even looked at her wrong, but she was mine at the time, and i enjoyed living with something so independent and not afraid to give me the cold shoulder if i screwed up bad. (it prepared me for being married... just a joke of course. ) wife if you read this please no divorce papers.click to expand...      1 bruce 1 said: ↑  all in all, we do the best we can with what we have at the time. you have what sounds like a good vet, loads of support here, and your own knowledge that will grow by miles with this experience alone. click to expand...  so true - i'm very lucky, this vet is so amazing. i can't say enough good things. she's done magic on the girls so i have faith that if there is magic that can happen - we have the best chance to do it for charlie too with her at the helm.  can i vote for no more needed medical experience - ever! - and more play experience?   it's true though - i've learned more the last 6 months about kitties needs and issues then ever in my lifetime so far.  xoxoxoxoxoxoxoxox   
 i remember a previous round of worry you experienced. it’s very hard to fight but you should remember that things changed. they can this time too. i have spent so many anxiety filled days and nights over kitties. when i look back at many of these times i realize that i mostly drove myself crazy. the cats were not nearly as affected as i was. i bet they were kind of shaking their heads and thinking, “ what on earth is her problem? is she losing it? huh, humans!” they are tough. hang on and wait for results before showing the kitties just how crazy we humans really are. we’ll get a bad rep! i will join my hands with the many, many paws here and try to send all the strength we can your way. xoxoxoxoxoxoxoxo  
 as the song says, "oh lordy when it rains it pours"! it seems like they love passing the "get sick now" baton, when one starts having problems, the others join in and say "hey, look at me. i'm having problems too" and before you know it, your entire colony is acting weird and you do nothing but care for them and pull your hair out.  hang in there, you're doing great. it's enough to make you go nuts, but you'll get through!   
 you always make me smile. everything from pooping out that skull, i have thought of that more than once since you first wrote about it, to *looks at you* of the 120+total kitties in my life in the past year, believe it or not, there have been days without worry. many days were filled with sadness, anxiety( that i thought might just be the end of me) and even tears. even more days were filled with laughter, surprise and amazement. i could not save them all but i saved more than i lost. the ones that are here with me or that i , tearfully, allowed to go to new homes, remind me to be grateful for every grin, playful moment and good old belly laugh they gave or give to me. i learn something new every day from them. maybe i earned a few more ( okay, my hair was turning white anyway) white hairs from the stress but i gained more smiles than white hairs. i also gained better instincts, more catspeak abilities and more knowledge. i have even managed to find a small amount of control that allows me to shelve my worries until the concerns are sorted and hopefully solved. then i turn into a melted jelly bean!  as with my daughter, it’s all connected to love. the love seems to carry us. love for each other and love from others. you all have that so i am hoping it will heal, carry and sustain you all. if you play and laugh at every opportunity, it really helps. savor the moment! let tomorrow wait until tomorrow because i can tell you that we will never be able to predict what tomorrow will bring. my daughter saw dozens of experts who predicted she would not survive a day. she was happy and smiling for 29 years. you might get hit by a foul ball but it dorsn’t mean the game is over. you are great at this. just keep batting.  if you need a smile, go and look at the silly cat i brought in most recently. with all my years of experience.....i managed to trap myself in a room with an enraged feral! ooops! luckily he didn’t eat me.  when he was outside he was really funny. inside he is hilarious. bj is a new experience altogether.   
 some yes, that sounds like it - pseudomonas.  no washing and i was very careful about getting it. i did wash my hands before and after the sample and of course, i had to touch the container. yes, she did say that one was very common. *nods*     jcatbird said: ↑  things have been much calmer there for him so i am thinking he just had a bump in the immune system and will fight this off okay with medicine. there may never be any worry of a repeat. i actually got food poisoning once but they couldn’t figure out what was wrong with me because i didn’t shake it for months. normally you get rid of it fairly quickly. wierd stuff happens sometimes. luckily the meds got rid of it because the culture didn’t show exactly what i had until after i was released from the hospital. apparently i got it from restaurant food at my birthday celebration. ha! lol great gift.click to expand...  yes, things have been calmer for him and i'm going extremely slow with the introductions to w.l and braveheart. i'm trying very hard not to stress anyone out too badly as this has to work out. (he is still at the stage of eating through a gate with them - and probably will be for a while. not because there is a bad reaction, there isn't, there is no reaction, but because he did the same with mia and even though his reaction was fine - he still is mean to her.) we might have to go back to square one with mia.  food poisoning on your birthday? ohhhhh geezeee. i think you and i angered the same luck genie! people don't realize often how long food poisoning can last and how much damage it can do!  the interesting thing i learned is that there are many strains, each requiring a different antibiotic. we will know in a few days which strain and how to treat it. i always thought e-coli was - well - e-coli. i never knew there were strains that required different treatments.     jcatbird said: ↑  i know you are probably trying to sanitize everything ( i have done that) and going cleaning crazy but it was probably just a freak thing. the cleaning is great but don’t let this make you paranoid. exposure once does not mean it is everywhere and he will get it again. just take reasonable precautions, as i am sure you were already doing.click to expand...  how did you know! been there done that huh? lol  the first reaction is - e-coli??? what???  and then all the questions start - how did this happen? where did i fail to clean something or?  then the other reaction of cleannnnnnnnn insanity begins! yup.  i'm trying to sort out where to begin - i wish i was able to hose down the whole house for him - and then i worry about the other kitties too!  i wonder what reasonable is now. the litter is always clean. he gets a new clean dish for every meal. i did have to start keeping the toilet seat closed down about a year ago as he decided he was a dog and wanted to drink from it regularly. *sigh*    jcatbird said: ↑  cats do lick their bums you know.....that is the one thing you cannot clorox. xoxoxo right back to you all.click to expand...  lol dang nab it - i wish we could!  xoxoxoxoxox  edit: i had to fix a quote as not all my response was there. all better now. the post anyway.   
 i often have to repair my posts. heh! vision, fumble fingers or the system? all three!  hang in there. i think you are about to be at the top of the mountain. you have done an amazing job putting all the pieces of a monster jigsaw puzzle together. without the picture on the front of the box to go by, this is truly an accomplishment. these cats have found the best kind of person that exists. the fact that you have endured and kept going forward is awesome! good job! you can join my crew anytime.   @wile i love your advice. the scent is telling. we all try to avoid smelling the litter when we clean the box! in this case it could be very useful to sniff! just for future reference.   
 you are so cool    
 me either - i mean e-coli is infectious so one would think washing etc is in order. *scratches head* i'll ask the vet on monday. i have another list of questionsfor her lol.  thank you. he is even - though they stole his fur. this is one way to reduce cat hair though!   (a large area of his belly is shaved.)   
 oh my gracious sakes just look at that seriously baby-pink bare belly!! i purely love how soft the fur is when it starts to grow back   
 first thing to say is i spoke to the kind wise vet tonight. a kudos to you all as she said wherever i was getting my information from - it was really good information. :-)   @furballsmom - thank you. hearts happy is a good thing! :-) couldn't have gotten here without you all xoxooxoxox  *nods* would need the mods for sure - i think the main thing is a vet visit needs to be stressed. i too would read the whole thing if it were my kitty... and have done lol. this has been a wild story. some i'm still shaking my head at in total disbelief.  i'm still at the beginning of your main thread and am in awe of it all.  i sadly did screw up by charlie sneaking some food so they can't tell if there is inflammation in the stomach lining *sigh* but it should still be okay we are just moving forwards with a piece missing but should still be able to figure it out. means mama paying real close attention.  i asked about probiotics and we are on board for that until his food trials. at that point we'll need to stop for a while as there is a beef in it. as with the good flea meds, feliway and dewormers, we can't get it in canada unless it's through a vet or sneakily online. again i say, i can grow pots plants here, smoke it if i wanted - but lord forbid i want a probiotic etc. i really don't want to know what goes on in the governments heads.  i asked about the cbd oil. that was an incredibly interesting conversation as well. vets here are not allowed to discuss dosage yet but can go through research of benefits with patients and their parents. there are several vets university doing research and it's all incredibly promising. she didn't sound at all like she had any aversions to using it. again, we have to wait until after the food trials but it is another option for him.  one thing she mentioned was that most of the carrier oil are done with coconut and palm. so this issue is fats for the cats etc.  i'll post here too but frankincense - very small amount patted on a cat after a drop, two at the most, is warmed in the hands. it is also known to calm. the smell of it. so what we talked about in another thread is also good. this also might be a good idea to do all four kitties when they are together - they'll smell the same lol.   xooxoxoxoxoxox to you all!  
 just checking in! i am cracking up and shaking my head at the same time! no probiotics, good flea meds, dewormer, or feliway but you can have pot?!?!?!  hmmmm. i live in an unusual place but so do you! the world is sometimes a little ........... off?!?!  i hope all is well. i’ve had you all on my mind but my world is a little crazy too. lol sending you all kitty hugs and purrs! ( i’m so glad the vet didn’t tell you we are all nuts. very encouraging considering some of our joking around.)  xoxoxoxo  
 i managed to get a charlies follow up sample this morning and i will be on route to the vet for when they open. it still looks dark but nothing like it did. i'm trying to remind myself that his pee will be concentrated first thing in the am so i don't worry too much.  *fingers are crossed that we come back good in a few days*  after that we'll need prayers as food trial three million, four hundred and twenty one thousand will probably start.  thank you @kflowers xoxoxoxo  sadly yeah all dairy. :-( good for us! not so good for kitties.  i have used parmesan - a little sprinkle - when trying to change charlies food. he seemed to like it but after a few days he'd go back on a hunger strike and that little trick would stop working! *sigh*  what they forget to tell you about adding a probiotic, which, charlies actually ate - go sort that one out with my picky boy - is that it can give the kitty an upset tummy / diarrhea as the gut changes. that would have been nice to know. lol i think sometimes vets forget to tell you about this side effects.  did you get your kimchi?   
 you got the prayers! no waiting, immediate service here! you are right that it is concentrated in the first of the morning. maybe an off and on thing with the probiotics and not every day. since he ate it at first maybe you could use it more as a treat and fool him into looking forward to it rather than getting tired of it. that might prevent the diarrhea too. it wouldn’t have as regulatory an effect but it might work!   
 thank you :-) xoxoxoxox  i think you're right with the probiotic as he's so sensitive to things. i slowed him down to half a package a day. that's helped a bit but it wasn't even something that crossed my mind to possibly have adverse effects. *sigh* poor guy - we think we are doing good things for them and nope - not quite.  i couldn't believe he ate it! it definitely smells like beef - there is no mistaken it. so to have him take it without an issue was amazing. he likes it best sprinkled on the dry food.  i bought some cans of lid diet in prep for the food exchange as i read all the vet stuff is crap food. if he doesn't eat any of it. i think i may have to resort to cooking. that will be interesting to learn about. yikes! but if it helps him and that's what he needs - then fine - i'll make it work!  food: i have : blue buffalo grain free duck and potato - both dry and wet. simply nourish ocean whitefish and potato and duck and pea - wet. natural balance duck and green pea and salmon and green pea. i also have a salmon and chickpea however that one i read is not complete nutrition. all wet. go sensitivity and shine - duck pate -wet. from 6 months ago from the vet: medi-cal sensitivity vr - wet. hills - d/d duck - wet.  i can get another flavor of go at a special shop but the ones not from the vet were the only ones i could find at the pet stores. i might be able to special order from the one place if need be or get a few other limited ones by ordering.  yup i am prepping but i have to see what the vet says.  but ladies and gentlemen. i present to you - charlie pee version 1 and 2:  the original pee!    new and improved?: (still looks to dark to me but i won't panic until the results come back)      
 thank you for prayers :-) xoxoxox  it does look lighter - still darker i think than normal. that first batch made me cry when i saw it. i was like "this is bad!"  true sometimes all the stress plus changes aren't good.  yay! you found it.  i managed to get them to send me a copy of the ultra sound report. i can read a bit of it and there is a note about bad mommy and food in tummy but i have no idea what a c+s results is from or what it means by sensitive to everything - unless they mean charlie is sensitive to everything. which - yup i'd go with that.  it looks like we are leading to food sesativity / ibd / ibs - however i am wondering on my own about :  small intestinal bacterial overgrowth (sibo): excessive bacteria in the small intestine in cats | petmd   ultrasound results: " history  consult type: us, sig: dob: 20121102, age: 6 y, sex: m altered, wt: 6.2kg, breed: siamese mix, species: feline, images: 86, case details: marked hematuria. no obvious calc on xray. e.coli positive in urine. c+s results, received day of ultrasound, state that it is sensitive to everything. ultrasound also for gi as there is a history of constipation and abdo discomfort - suspect primary enteropathy as a cause.  findings  an abdominal ultrasound study is reviewed.  abdomen us: in the urinary bladder there is some mobile echogenic debris, and some of this is adherent to the apical ventral wall of the bladder and slowly dissipates over the course of the study. no bladder stones are seen. the left kidney (4 cm) and right kidney (4.3 cm) have a few fine echogenic reflective interfaces along the diverticuli. the stomach, duodenum, jejunum and ileocolic junction appear normal. there is some fluid ingesta in the gi tract without distension, and a few parallel echogenic interfaces in the stomach that may be parasitic worms or mucus. the liver, gallbladder, spleen, pancreas, and mesentery appear normal.  conclusion  1. mobile echoes in the urine.  (a) differentials include blood, mucus and fat, or active sediment. (b) an underlying cause for bacterial cystitis is not identified. specifically no stones or mass lesion identified. 2. few fine reflective interfaces along the renal diverticuli.  (a) differentials include normal interarcuate arteries or renal pelvic mineralizations; both are benign an identified. 2. few fine reflective interfaces along the renal diverticuli.  (a) differentials include normal interarcuate arteries or renal pelvic mineralizations; both are benign an incidental. 3. nonspecific gi content without obstruction resembles normal ingesta.  (a) there may be primary gi disease that ultrasound does not appreciate. if the patient has been appropriately fasted (12-18 hours) then there may be some delayed gastric emptying. possible differentials for the clinically suspected primary gi disease include ibd, food sensitivity, infection (parasitic worms, bacterial imbalance) or a combination of these."  btw : we are not expecting parasites / worms (we think it's mu to be the cause of this but he and the girls are have all been de-wormed again and will be given another does on the 28th to be safe.   
 i think that you are probably right on this, in terms of not being able to make much progress until the kittens are gone. i think that i will try to rotate them out of rooms, to let everyone explore sometimes and be confined at other times. my roommate has also said that sully can come in her room at night (i am too allergic to have him in bed with me), so that could also be part of the solution.   
 i think that it would have to be the bathroom or my roommate's bedroom, as the bedrooms are carpeted and i am too allergic to have sully in my bedroom all the time, as much as we both would love it. it's definitely a good suggestion, sully has always liked to hide anyway...   
 @ans5181: hello and welcome to tcs. condolences on the loss of lucy.  we have a crossing the bridge forum if you feel up to posting a tribute to him. rip sweet boy.   about the current cat interactions, i agree with the others that things won't improve until jade is spayed and the kittens have been adopted to their new homes. then you can start over with the cat introductions.  here's some tcs articles on the topic that may be helpful: how to fix an unsuccessful cat introduction how to successfully introduce cats: the ultimate guide introducing cats to cats  
 i hadn't even thought about a calming collar, that is a great idea! would you put them on both sully and jade?   
 if he seems restless and wants out of the room, maybe do that - lock the others up. the less interaction they have, is probably best. then start the introductions over once jade is spayed, and the kittens (that are leaving) are gone. jade will likely go into heat again soon, so ensure she doesn't get outside, as cats can get pregnant while still nursing.  
 i've never had more than 1 cat at a time, so i've no experience with multi-cat households. hopefully other members will see this update and reply.  but in my inexperienced opinion, it doesn't sound too bad. i just skimmed your above posts to refresh myself of the situation, and you mentioned sully always liked to hide. and he is 17 years old, so it's seems normal that he'd enjoy the quiet of his own space.  sully is eating and sleeping and using the litter box normally, right? if so, maybe don't worry, as long as he seems happy. and, of course, continue spending time with him.  you could, of course, try putting the other cats in a room, and seeing if sully would follow you out into the rest of the apartment. but again, a contented cat, who keeps to himself, is a much better scenario than a stressed one who develops litter box issues, or other behavioural issues.  
 he is acting totally normal other than not leaving the room. eating, drinking, sleeping, using the litter box! i have tried putting the cats in another room but he will not be convinced at present! thank you for your opinion, i am probably being a worried parent but i don't want him to feel pushed out of his own home!   
  don't ask me how i am getting two females that didn't know each other to get along in a month's time. i did everything wrong. there have been fights, accidents, and a bloody nose.  i have to treat the white one who is the over owner like a child. she goes to time out when she attacks the black one who is coming out of the litter box for example.  i have to separate them when they are not being directly observed by myself. i have only had one cat before. i have been on here crying about how do i introduce cats a lot. don't give up.   
    sully being annoyed by kittens, amber is keeping watch    stripey kitten is the one i'm keeping, her name is piccolo (aka pickles, aka baby pickies lol)  
 my friend found a cat behind a dumpster who was scratched up, starved, and frightened. he was taken to a vet where they neutered him and was preparing to send him to a shelter. i was informed that the vet assumed he was a stray and he seems to be healthy other than the lack of weight. she asked me if i would adopt, seeing as how i was looking for a fur baby anyways. i knew he was going to be a challenge, but i agreed. fast forward a month, everything seemed to be going alright. i gave him a whole empty room, filled with the cat essentials and some toys. even a tall cat tree with perches. he got to the point to where he was actually letting my boyfriend and i get close and give him chin scratches. this continued for about a week. one day he randomly started to hiss, growl, even spit at us when we would come in to feed him. we wouldn't even dare to try and get close to him. it's been like this for the past few weeks up until last night. he let me touch him with the wand toy so i went ahead and gently pet him a couple of times and decided to leave him on a good note. i have tried researching everything i could to help the situation. to make him comfortable. to allow him to feel like "king of the castle." im desperate for help on what my next move should be. i know time does wonders but i don't feel i have much time left. i hate to say this or be in this situation but i'm repeatedly told by friends and family to just give up on an animal who strongly dislikes me, takes up an entire room you can't enter and that he's just "a waste of time and money." i can't handle the thought of giving up on him, letting myself and him down. especially when i knew what i was getting myself into agreeing to adopt and that he would be a challenge. i'm desperate for reassurance about doing the right thing and the wisest things i should do to encourage him to be more confident and "cat-like." i don't want him to be unhappy living with me or worse, depressed and lacking attention.   
 i think that he was more than just a stray, he was more feral. as for the sudden change, something happened to frighten him again, a small set back. either a stranger appeared and scared him, some smell you carried in, or someone came to the door and pounded while you were gone. he will come around. maybe he will only be relaxed and friendly around you, but it will happen in time. he doesn't dislike you, he is frightened out of his mind and doesn't trust you, cats take a long time to give their hearts to humans who have always frightened and abused them. please don't listen to those well meaning 'friends and family' who obviously don't know what they are talking about. many people have an irrational dislike for cats and aren't afraid to voice it. thank you for seeking support from people who have been there and can help you.  the fact that you can now touch him again speaks volumes, he is learning to trust you. it is a very important first step. it will take months to get him to relax around you and be a normal cat. please pity him and try to understand, he has lost all hope and needs to learn how to open his heart again. cats need quiet to relax. when you are with him, no sudden moves, loud noises or loud voices. sit quietly and talk softly to him. offer treats and leave one when you leave. just sitting in the same room and being on the phone or reading to him aloud would do wonders. that is why cats are so afraid of children, they are too loud and too quick. he is receiving food, has a safe, warm place to live, he is not unhappy, it is all he ever wanted. love will come in time. nothing is ever worth having that you don't have to work for, think how rewarding gaining his love will be! everyone works to earn a cat's love ,they are not like dogs who live to be in a pack, and blindly follow pack mentality. for now, just spend a few moments with him while you can, touch him as often as you can, and know love and trust will come in time. bless you for helping him, we are always here for support, please keep in touch!  
 i have tried that in the past but then i tend to forget to feed them all together or forget to give him his medication. but maybe i’ll have to try it again.  
 you can't just ignore him once - it will take about a week, maybe two to recondition him. just power through it. delaying feeding until after your morning routine also seems to help.  
 in addition to the feliway diffusers, it might be worth giving the feliway spray a try—if your visitors are willing to have their clothing lightly misted before they come into your house. there’s a cat at the sanctuary where i volunteer that goes ballistic when he smells other cats on people and he attacks. they’ve had to remove him from the general population room and make him the office cat until he gets adopted because he really tears into other cats—and people who smell like cats. a few minutes before anyone enters the office, they lightly mist their pants and shoes. he’ll come up smell but doesn’t attack. i’ve not had any problems with the spray damaging my clothes, but your guests may not appreciate it!  
 i hope that's all it is but i'm concerned cuz he's not using his litter box like normal but he is eating like the normal amount he would but in a different way i have to bring it in here he doesn't like it when i take him in the kitchen and leave him there then he just comes running back so to feed him i bring food in here and then he eats like a good and normal amount. i don't want him to be sick he's such a baby he is probably about 12 years old  
 for speed eating, sometimes it helps to put a ball or cup in the bowl. i haven't tried these, but i've read about them. the objects force kitty to 'search' for the food and slows down the eating. we use a bowl that has a raised center and the food settles around that. i don't know whether that helped, solved, or did nothing for sweet gum's throwing up, as i also changed her to an almost no chicken ingredient food at the same time.  
 furballsmom, i saw the post, thank you! in the feeding tips article you linked to it says not put the cat’s food and water bowls next to each other. i’ve always kept guava’s bowls right next to each other. since he’s not avoiding eating (quite the opposite!) is it fine to leave it like that? or would it still be better to move one of the bowls somewhere else? i don’t want to stress him out.  i will try hissing at him next time he goes to steal something.  i feed him two 5.5 oz cans a day, split into three meals. is that too much? he’s a little overweight right now but he’s still supposed to be on the bigger side. i worry if i reduced his food intake he’d get more intense about food.  the mug method seems like a good idea! there’s already a mat under his bowls because he likes spilling his water so i can give the mug a try.  thanks again everyone! i really appreciate all the info and suggestions. sorry if i missed anything.  
 hi all,  i just adopted a 3 month old kitten from a foster home with many cats 3 days ago. he seems pretty much well adjusted for such a short time. but when i'm laying in bed he gets on my chest and licks, licks, licks my entire face for a long time, to the point where it stings. i can stop him by directing his attention elsewhere, but he always wants to come back to it.   is there a normal explanation for this or is it a sign of his missing other cats to groom? (he licks my hands a lot during the day as well)  replies appreciated    
 hi catsknowme and thank-you for the warm welcome! a bottle is an idea, but how then would i get him off the bottle, and when?  i am going to try wearing face cream tonight to see if that discourages him (but if it doesn't i can't let him ingest it so will wash it off). will let you know how that works.  
 thanks for all the replies! i'm thinking of using apple cider vinegar on my face tonight as it is not toxic to cats, esp. in the tiny amount he would ingest before, i'm guessing, he stops licking. it is also safe for my face as i have oily skin.   i hadn't thought of learning tricks as confidence building for the kitty. i have already managed to teach him, "come up" by patting the surface i want him to jump up on and saying, "come on up!" i give him a treat when he does so as well as praise. we are now working on, "come here" which involves me patting my leg while standing and calling him. it has worked twice and treats/praise were given. i've added his name to the 'come here' and hope, once established, i can drop the patting and just use his name. he naturally licks my nose if i give him a kiss on top of his head, which is super cute. what exactly is a 'tailwhip'?  
 i forgot to ask....what is your bedtime routine? how does it align with "play (hunt), eat, sleep"?  
 it does seem to be a self-soothing mechanism. i personally do think kittens should grow up with other kittens (even though my cat did not; only cats are fine but i would never do it again) but i also know that two cats isn't a possibility for everyone. it certainly wasn't for me for a long time.  i don't have very much advice. i do think that since he is a child he should be allowed to self-soothe. though i agree that your face probably isn't the best outlet for that!!  
 wow. i admire your dedication to helping all those foster kittens! i've decided getting him a small stuffed animal is the way to go as i can put it in between my face and his when he is on my chest licking. i might rub it with some catnip and of course pet and praise him when he licks it - and not me. it is difficult to discourage the licking behavior without also discouraging the cuddling behavior ( i can't remove him from my chest when he licks or he will learn not to climb on my chest, which i do want him to do.) i'll get the stuffy tomorrow or wed. and we will see how that goes. like you said, it could take a while to 'transfer' the behavior.  as for training, i'm more interested in getting practical things established at this point than tricks. for instance, i have been teaching him to stay off my desktop as it is impossible to get work done with a cat treading all over your books, lol. also, am having some success with a 'come here' command, using his name and treating when he comes. think coming to his name will take a while, but that is my focus right now. would love to see a 'tail whip' though  am also teaching him the general word "no". he is now stopping whatever he is doing when i use the word moossstt of the time. just need some firming up on that one. once i have the basics down i'll consider some of these great tricks you've suggested!  thanks again for the feedback!  
 just throwing this into the mix - try different toys and rub your face on them (give them your smell and skin oils). if you can, set them at night close to your face, and move him toward the toy when he starts to lick you. might take a few toys to find one that clicks - or might not work at all.  my 2nd cat, gracie, would come to bed at night and knead my head - before we declawed her front paws (was going to do that anyway). it really, really hurt. she even did it after being declawed; but, she did eventually stop on her own. (we never found anything to replace my head/hair - lol). she was 6 months old when she 'found' us, and she probably kneaded at least another 6 months or so.  
  it was great to read your update! o am so glad that you are getting things worked.  
 hi. i pretty much agree with all of the above. but, one of the reasons you might be finding your older cat less affectionate with you is because she is the one being relegated to an isolated area during the day, correct? i am guessing before the kitten came into the picture your older one had free reign? it's not like she is mad at you, but rather feeling much less confident about her place in the home.   i am not a super-advocate of leaving the two of them in the same area unless there is someone home that can keep an eye out for any sort of escalation. it is not likely, but could happen. if there is someone at home, then stop confining your older cat.   also, it's only been a month, the kitten will eventually figure it out and hopefully before your older cat starts to lose her patience!  
 first, i would like to say that the cat in your profile picture is quite beautiful. she has a very sweet face.  second, i don't know anything about real trees, but i wish you luck with a tree at all. some cats are worse than others, but they're usually pretty inquisitive. ornaments are like wonderful, dangly toys to them and a tree can be the perfect thing to climb. i will say, if i brought a real tree in it would drive my cats crazy. one in particular who'd be trying to eat it. we gave up on trees in general though. it was our choice. our cats aren't terrible, but with just the two of us it was more work than it was worth.  i'd say you should put it up when you'll be home to supervise though.  
 there are a lot of wonderful non-breakable ornaments - styrofoam (remember elementary school and gluing ribbon to styrofoam balls and the kid who tried to eat them? bet she invented rice cakes.) soft stuffed dolls with angel wings. make your own ornaments from construction paper, cardboard and cover with wrapping paper, or aluminum foil. don't use the metal hooks to hang them on the tree, those are terrible if eaten, so are twist ties. little pieces of sting an inch or less. or if you've made the cardboard one, punch a hole in the top of the ornament and slid it on the branch/ sprig sticking out of the branch.  or just use kitty toys - stuffed mice come in christmas colors.  
 i'd also suggest, annoying ain't i?, that you avoid strings of popcorn, and decorations made of food whether it's varnished or not.  
     
 i so want to do this some day!   
 and there's this idea, too.    
 just another suggestion, if you can, anchor the tree to the wall. even if it's a fake tree and has only cat safe ornaments a tree falling on the cat can still hurt it physically and/or mentally. when some of my cats were kittens i just put the tree in the corner of the room so i could feed a rope from one wall to the other. you don't even have to put holes in the wall, just use some command hooks.   
 oh no! that is certainly something i have not thought of! thank you for mentioning it!   
 i just wanted to say that i really appreciate all the advice in this thread! i've been worrying about how my two 7-month-olds will handle our tree.  
 i have a little artificial tree, maybe 4 feet tall that i put on an end table. it had been put in a pot as a seasonal outdoor decoration. i retrofitted it with an old, very heavy cast iron flag stand that i found. it is anchored with a wire to a screw eye into the studding in the corner of the room. i use plastic decorations on the lower branches.  that has been adequate for the past couple years. about the only thing i've had happen is to find a decoration on the floor in the morning, but i have added a new kitten to the clowder this season. are there any other suggestions you could make?  
 i've had trees many times. the cats like to sleep under the branches mostly. i don't use tinsel or garlands. we use regular lights and have plastc or wooden ornaments. so far we have not had any issues with the tree. we stopped getting a tree onl because of the mess they make and i have limited room for the tv. the tree blocks the tree and i just didnt want to deal with pine needles all over the place. plus we keep it pretty warm in here. trees do best when it's 50 to 60ish then they don't drop needles as fast. my angel floey used to drink out of the water reservoir even if we covered it up.  my vet didn't seem concerned about this. just said don't let her eat the needles. luckily she tried a few bites but the sap made her get this look on her face so she never did that again. out of all the cats i have had she's the only one who was a troublemaker. none of the other cats tried to climb it either. they would bat at the ornaments at the bottom but we used cat friendly ornaments so they could play to their hearts content...wooden ornaments are great for them. they don't break and they handle punting around the room.  
 it does sound like they have a decent amount of toys, although another cat tree or putting up some shelves might be a good idea. rotating toys is also smart, might keep things fresh.  as for feliway, it works on some cats and some it doesn’t. usually with the diffusers depending on the size of the room you may need a few of them. you leave them plugged in all the time and i think it takes a few weeks to start working. i agree they are pricey, and it doesn’t always work for all cats. for the spray, it’s mostly in areas where you want the cat to calm down (we use t in carriers for vet visits), but i’m not sure that it would stop destructive behavior?   i think playing might help most, and maybe trying to harness train them and take them on walks. burn out that energy.  
 hi! you've gotten some great advice !  8 superb automated cat toys that you're going to love!  how to make your home bigger (at least for your cats)  food puzzles for cats  20 best interactive cat toys: the ultimate list (2018) | heavy.com  home the ripple rug  
 hi! is she spayed? is he neutered?  taling care of that is your first order of business, if not.  
 no worries! hahaha.  crazy salmon has been to the vet quite a few times for random issues that turned out to be caused by hair balls. last time was a few months ago. they’re both due for their vaccines and a check-up anyway, just need to choose the right vet.  
 i wonder if he gets stimulated by seeing squirrels and birds and bugs now in this new place (moved from philly to small jersey town). i have screens on the windows and they spend their days watching critters. there is roof directly underneath the windows with a tree and squirrels hangout too. it’s funny to watch the cats!  
 i also run after him all over the apartment, he loves that. but i’m worried i might be increasing his needs to play... is there some kind of rough age again when they get older? like another adolescence?  
 i didn't really think so, but this sure sounds like another round of teenage angst.  i think keep at it, he does need more manners   
 the only time i ever hear him meow is when he's chewing out another cat, or asking for food. i've been hearing a male 'sing' outside for the last few days. i got crafty and snuck up today. it's clyde, who is so old he doesn't even move much. he happily sings outside, and when i greet him he looks very happy and wants to be social.   i'm confused, i've never had this happen before. is that normal? he's clearly not in pain, or hungry (i think. he does meow for 'mush' - canned cat food) i would think he would start singing earlier in life.   he's also gone from nearly dead to very happy/awake/alert. it's... strange. he's acting six years younger. i was thinking it could possibly be the good feelings before he takes a fatal health turn. i've only had one other cat die from old age, so this is new territory for me.  
 yup, that is what i meant, has an overactive thyroid. while the cat may seem young, in fact the overactive thyroid has raised their blood pressure, caused cardiac issues and weight loss. it can be treated with medication.  
 he was in just a few months ago for a full blood panel and ultrasound. we know he has stage two kidney failure, and about ten different stones in his kidneys. i think he's due for another full panel in four months.   i haven't noticed any other signs besides singing, are there other signs i should be watching for? i think he eating may have slowed down a little. it's hard to tell since i'm not always the one who feeds him.  
 if he's happy and in relatively good health then that is encouraging. it might be worthwhile to keep a closer eye on him to figure out if it is dementia related. you wouldn't want him wandering off and forgetting how to get back!   
 oh yes, this cat gets checked on about 25 times a day! he seems there if you talk to him, he just zones out. the singing is both adorable and terrifying. i'm always afraid he has a tumor and it's the tumor faking him being healthy. his scans a while back were all clear, though.   i guess i'll just keep an eye on him for now. at least he's not in pain. i'll be glad to get him back to the vet!  
 some breeds are ground dwellers. if that's her in your profile pic she might be part ragdoll. my mawkin was the laziest cat i've ever met. even as a kitten i used more energy trying to get her to play than she ever did. she was healthy and alert but prefered spectating to joining in. she also preferred the ground or her recliner.     
 she gives me that look quite frequently. and she nipped at me the other day for not presenting her majesty with breakfast quickly enough. she definitely has some attitude sometimes.  and sometimes she can look pretty sweet and innocent:    
 i would suggest for now getting her a 'cave' or two. like my cat cube or a cardboard box on it's side with a towel/blanket draped over 3/4 of the entrance. i would also suggest trying out with a starter cat tree that is waist heigh. feed her treats there if you really want her high up.  be sure to give her a safe cave that kids are absolutely not allowed to bug her if she is there (i like giving cats a safe room from little kids!) she will get her confidience eventually. lastly one of my boys as a slight vision issue from getting his eye scratched as a kitten. he tries to avoid heights, so i give him footstool to get up to computer desk, the cat tree and dresser easier. it might just be a vision thing.  
 a few yrs ago i got a new 5ft tree (2 shelves plus a tunnel) at petsmart on the day after thanksgiving for under $30. a friend has ground loving himalayans that love their 3ft cat house that looks like a princess castle.   
 hi everyone!   my friend passed away on august 28th. i said i would take her cat, sebastian a neutered male, so he wouldn't go to a shelter. i have a neutered male cat, augustus, who came to live with me when he was 12 weeks old. we are quite happy together.   sebastian arrived in early september. he was very thin and wasn't eating. he had been in the police shelter for about 10 days. he has his own room here in the house. he finally started eating well the end of september. i have been doing the feeding each cat at the same time on either side of the door. since sebastian wasn't really eating and is still finicky i'm lucky if it works out with them both eating maybe 50% of the time. sebastian is let out to explore the house often, and augustus is let into sebastian's room as well. augustus often hisses at the door, which enrages sebastian who starts hissing and body slams the door pushing his paws under the door, which is sort of funny. but should i stop this behavior? i've been shooing augustus from the door when i catch him.   we did one group play session which went great. i don't know why i didn't do more of those. then we put up a screen and were letting them view each other. not too much aggression seemed to be happening so after a few of those sessions we lifted the screen to see what they would do. they approached each other did the nose touch which for a minute looked like it was going to go great. until augustus hissed and then sebastian started cornering him. we separated them with a piece of cardboard, the staring and attempts by sebastian to corner augustus continued. augustus went to the top of the bookcase where he stayed with sebastian staring at him waiting for him to come down. i called that session over and i felt like i had really messed things up. so i started all over again, and am now up to the screen viewings. when sebastian is let out of the room and spots augustus on the other side of the screen, he charges towards the screen. when will this get better? will it get any better? how long should i do the screen viewings? when should i try a group play session again? sebastian is impossible to positively reinforce as he will not eat any treats, won't even eat human tuna! i also can't get him to eat any wet food. augustus performs like a circus animal for food and he seems to be coming along well.  any help or advice appreciated!  
 hi! i think you can work this out and be able to bring the outside kitty in - bless your heart! along with the suggestions in the articles below, try some music - there's the app relax my cat, or kusc.org. music really works to help calm a kitty and could be good for linon, plus there are a lot of other calming products on the market in addition to feliway. be aware that there are fake feliway products too - oddly enough a "fake" feliway product worked better for my boy lol  do cats get jealous? (and what to do about it when they do)  how to successfully introduce cats: the ultimate guide  six surefire strategies to reduce stress in cats  
 our cats do this on occassion as well. i see them scratching on it with their paws while laying there. do they have scratch pads? i think they just like the feel of it.  
 i've read that the litter box having her scent in it, makes it a safe place for her. i supposed it's similar to having your own particular favorite chair. i'd certainly get the other mat just in case she likes the texture. texture is very important to many of us.  if she were actually lying in the litter box itself i'd consider taking her to the vet. this can be a sign of illness as well as insecurity.  
 so i got luna (12 week old kitten) last week and so far things have not been the best. i've been trying to keep her in my room but at this point i can no longer do that because she cries and scratches at my door and obviously i can't keep her in my room all day while i'm at school or somewhere else. and i haven't been able to have a successful introduction between her and my resident cat noodles (age 5) because noodles is too afraid of her. since i can't have her locked up in room all day i have to let her out during the day so she can run around, but she attacks my older cat alot. noodles hisses and hits at luna when she chases her and shes not comfortable coming downstairs because she is scared. my family members won't help me with this so i'm very much on my own. tonight my dad got nasty with me that he doesn't like that noodles is scared to come downstairs to come to him, and that i should "just keep her in your room". unfortunately, my father is an absolute moronic asshole and doesn't know what he's talking about or how these things work. i love noodles very much and i hate seeing her stressed so much and i love luna and i understand she is just a kitten and she just wants to adventure and play. it's weird to me because we got noodles around the same age but she liked to sleep lot. not much play. maybe i went into this with the wrong expectations of her. i feel like i've done every i could do. this is causing me much stress and at this point a grave amount of sadness. i don't know what to do.  
 you say that this is definitely behavioral, not medical, so does that mean that you have taken her to the vet since this started?  
 i agree with making sure a vet visit has happened since this behavior started - it could be that she developed a new issue and feels constantly hungry or something.  do you have visitors often, are any of them new people or have any old friends tried a new fragrance? does a neighbor have a new pet that she can hear/smell?  
 maybe i missed it, but is she fixed?  
 i have been to the vet since this all started and she checked out with a perfect bill of health, it was her yearly so she got bloodwork done, a full exam, etc. if there were something wrong with her, they would have found it then.  she is fixed and has been since i adopted her a year and a half ago. before i adopted her, she was in the 'kitten room' with a few other little fluffballs. i think she was born at the shelter from a pregnant stray someone brought in.  she's lived with me in small spaces for the whole time i've had her, so i don't think it's a space issue either. i adopted her at 5mo old with the express intent of her being my esa, and we've lived in dorms together ever since! (the exception being when we go home for breaks, but even then she's kept in my bedroom and not given full run of my family's house, the resident cat is super gripey about other cats even though holly is always really friendly to her.) when she does start getting stir crazy from the space, we go on walks around campus or on trips to the local pet shop, since i've taught her how to behave very well on a leash and behave in public. (she loves the attention, and is pretty much never fearful or skittish when we're out and about. she plops down in the child seat of the basket and feeds off everyone stopping by to pet her, meowing and batting at their hands when they try to stop.)  she's extremely outgoing and friendly, and i don't get visitors often, but when i do, she's in their lap or wanting them to play with her within 5 minutes of them coming inside. a lot of people say that she acts more like a dog than a cat in that regard! i figure it's because i socialized her a lot when i got her to get her used to meeting lots of different people (a skill she needed to have being in a dorm). i desensitized her to a load of things (using only positive reinforcement of course), she's very food motivated, so with a handful of high value treats i was able to associate car rides, airport stress, and a bunch of other things that would be normal stress-inducers for a cat with being given some really special treats that she absolutely loves. it's part of why i feel like it wouldn't even be stress-related, because she doesn't stress out easily, she's very confident and used to unpredictable experiences. (like airports and fights, even with all that noise and nonsense she either chills out in her carrier like it's her bed, chills out on my lap (on her harness and lead) or wants to go exploring everything (tail up and relaxed posture, so it's not her looking for an escape route). she's just a pretty well-exposed kitty.  the only real super out of the ordinary thing that's happened in the past couple months was when i went on a weekend retreat and couldn't bring her along. but even then i was only gone for 2 nights, and she was left with a timed feeder for her meals, plenty of water, loads of toys, and my ra talked to her through my door to check up on her. she was constipated when i returned home (i know for a fact because yep, i rushed her to the vet the same day thinking "oh god she's got a blockage in her intestines she ate something she shouldn't have my baby why has she thrown up a few times" only to find out from the xrays she just really needed to poo.) i followed the vet's advice and soon enough she was right back to her normal bowel movements, just... on the carpet, not in her litter box.  the retreat was last month though, and the behavior has been going on since before it, so i don't think that was the catalyst for this.  do you think maybe there's just something she decided she doesn't like about her litter box all of a sudden? if it's as easy a fix as "go to the shop and buy a new box" it would be fantastic.  
 also he's totally fine if i'm in my bathroom  
 i gave my kitten a stuffed animal to wrestle, just a little smaller than she was. just one toy designated for wrestling. she acted out like yours...biting and pouncing at inappropriate times, racing around at night when i wanted to sleep, harassing the older cat...when she gets too out of hand i redirect her attention to the toy, pushing it at her and making it seem like it's wrestling back. then i leave her with it. she's gotten the message. the toy likes to wrestle more than anyone else in the house. she sneak attacks it, rolls around, claws the tar out of the thing...and everyone else gets blessed relief.  another thing that helped when she was settling into a bedtime routine was to turn out all the bedroom lights. lamp, phone, everything. she'd eventually settle down. a month in and she's so used to routine that she puts herself to bed.  
 thanks for the wonderful love you give your cat. probably needs lots of play. several sessions a day of about 20minutes or until he is panting. puzzle feeders may help give him something to do at night.  
 as in the notes above, play play play (i had to play with my male kitten for 30 mins in am and 30 mins before bed, running 90% of the time through the house- he panted like a dog during it and loved it and then slept quietly). and hisss. that is what mom, brothers and sisters do when kitten play gets over aggressive.  
 i've got my older cat on a diet and i need to tire the 4 month old out...s/o had the bright idea to tie a shoestring to the back of my pants the other day...i ran around the house like a cat on midnight crazies with two very excited kitties pounding after me until we were all out of breath! good exercise for all of us!   
 how old is the kitten? generally we say if there's no fur flying or blood, and if the kitten doesn't seem scared, and keeps returning for more "fun", then it is probably just cat play.  
 so far, she seems to be doing quite well with him. i just don’t want to be inadvertently encouraging tension between them. also, as i prefer not to be chewed on, i am concerned about her learning the behavior from him.   
 if you have a soft toy that you can provide to her rather than your hands, and consistently saying a firm no and similarly putting her down if she starts, hopefully her personality doesn't go in that direction.  
 please help. about two weeks ago one of my cats died (i had three)now i have two.  a week ago, to help my heart, i started fostering a mother cat and kittens. they are kept in my guest bedroom. my male cat (the litter mate of the one who died) has barely eaten in the past week. i've tried feeding him all types of food and so far, he will only take a few bites of a fatty kitten food. my older female cat didn't want to eat the food i always fed them, but i found another kind she will eat. now, she has diarrhea.. but she is acting normal and it must be the change in food. i ordered feliway and it will arrive tomorrow. i'm hoping that will help both of them adjust to the new smells of the fosters and the loss of their brother, but do you guys have any other advice?  has anyone else experienced this with their cats?  
 yes, i do think they are still grieving and upset about the new arrivals. they will get over it, it's only been a week since you brought them in, cats take a long time to get used to strangers. have you tried swapping blankets to get them used to the new smells? give them extra attention and empathy too. feed them whatever they will eat to get them going, extra treats too. deli sliced turkey, bacon, anything. lots of water too. get a new cat tower or toys and some catnip to keep them busy.  i'm so sorry for your loss, i'm sure with all this going on it is keeping you busy, i know keeping busy helped me through a lot of heartache. i'[[ pray for you all, and wish you the very best luck that normalcy returns quickly!  
 my can won't eat much, a few bites now and then, maybe one small can/day. he's a big guy and usually eats 4 cans/day. i took him to the vet yesterday and this morning he just didn't want to eat. and then i read - maybe on another thread here, but i can't find it - a tip that has worked well. duke loves greenies treats. i ground a bag up in the food processor to nearly a powder, mixed some with his food, and sprinkled a coarser grind over the top. my thinking was that the fine ground would flavor the food, and the coarser grind would have the bite he's used to. and he ate it, around 2/3 of a can, which is about what he usually eats at one meal. i'm waiting for the results of his blood test yesterday.  
 my cat's names are candy and slate. slate recently had a fight with what we believe to be a raccoon, and came home with all kinds of nasty scratches. we took him to the vet the following morning, and picked him several hours later. he has a cone, and the fur on his head has been shaved off. now, candy is being rather aggressive with him. she's usually a very quiet, timid cat, and rarely hisses or growls. she came up on my bed this morning while i had slate with me, and upon seeing him, she hissed at him. i tried to bring her closer, to see if she just needed to sniff him and realized it was okay, but she continued to hiss, and started to growl, even after sniffing him. i'm sure she'll calm down after the cone is removed (in two weeks), but i'd like to know why she's acting like this. does she not recognize him? is she mad at him? is she scared of the cone? thanks in advance for any responses!  
 yow! i am trying to keep them all straight (sorry)! what if you put the well behaved cat with the two kittens (leaving out 'swatty' and 'moocher'). she would still have a semi-herd. if i have messed up who is who, please forgive me.  p.s. maybe we should know their names, and who is who. i feel bad that i am calling two of them 'swatty' and 'moocher'.  
 denim the fabric of cat people.  
 i would still consider getting a kitten (i tend to adopt a younger kitten not older.) in my opinion i like to neuter/spay one cat/kitten and teach them to let me sleep, then adopt a second kitten. i'm sorry she didn't work out. it sounds like she was used to being the only cat. i would consider adopting another kitten after a month or so. just get a little kitten and be sure to teach your current kitten to let you sleep in the meantime. *he is so little at 18 weeks old that if you see a kitten at 3 months old, i would go ahead and adopt one, today. just be prepared for double the fun & double the mayhem!  there are many happy only cats out there, lord knows salem was perfectly happy as an only cat (i adopted him at 4.5 months old.) he still looks at me like he is asking if i can give his brother back... 12 years later   
 i've had this 2 year old(m) for about 3 months now. he was never supposed to be a permanent resident as i took him from a coworker(who lied to me about his behavior btw).i took him so he wouldn't have to go to a shelter and planned to find someone else to take him. well now i'm kinda stuck with him because no one wants a cat around here. the main problem right now though is no matter what i've tried he won't leave my poor older cat 11(f) alone. he will stalk her, pounce on her and try to fight with her no matter what. i have tried the feli-away collar and spray. yelling when he gets near her and a water gun, but he is relentless and wont leave her be. now i have to keep them separated at nearly all times, because when he notices i'm not paying attention he lunges at her. then she just starts this awful screaming just wanting to be left alone. i try to play with him and wear him out, but it doesn't work either. what can i try? they are both fixed. i'm very close to just giving him up to a shelter myself now. tried to do a nice thing, but got lied to and feeling burned by a coworker.  
 sounds like the youngster is just trying to play, which is normal, and the older cat wants none of it and is highly stressed by it, which is also normal. these things generally get better with time, but it is sometimes slow and they may never be friends. yelling and water guns won't work -- wanting to play with another cat is too deeply hard wired in young cats. calming products may help the older cat some. adding a big cat tree for the older cat to chill on might help some. but mostly just time.  the good news is that your coworker may have not lied to you at all. you may just have a normal 2 year old cat. that is what it sounds like to me anyway. doesn't help much vis-a-vis the older cat, but at least you can give the cat away in good conscience -- would likely be fine with another young active cat or as an only cat.  a take away is that your 11 year old is not adaptable enough to adjust easily to a young cat. if you succeed in giving the 2 year old away, never adopt a young active cat, will just be the same thing.  
 oh gosh, i'm so sorry this has taken this turn. have you talked to a vet about a calming med? he sounds over-the-top. if you haven't, it might not be a bad idea to have him checked out anyway.  there have been a couple of recent threads where the focus was to get the victim cat more confident, with more play time, lots of loving, basically special treatment and attention. also try some music, it's known to help relax cats and she definitely needs that.  this post of mine contains info you can hopefully utilize artie and kaylee’s fighting ended in bloodshed and here's another from that same thread artie and kaylee’s fighting ended in bloodshed  
 welcome to tcs!  i'm glad you joined the forum but sorry to hear your cat is having a health related problem. i agree with the above members that stress can lead to a uti and it would be beneficial for your vet to rule out any medical issues. here is an article about litterbox problems and when to call the vet that you may find helpful: litterbox problems? here's why you should call your vet  best of luck, please keep us posted on your progress.   
 is he eating a lot of dry food? if so, maybe try increasing his canned food. too much dry food causes my cats to have pee problems.  
 some kittens are unusually bonded and feel the need to keep the other in view at all times. amusingly, i had two years ago where only one felt that way; the other would wander off while the other napped, causing the loving one to cry and look all around desperately. they outgrow it pretty quick.  the boxes aren't covered are they? ditch covers and as previously mentioned make sure the sides are low. that way the kittens can still see each other.  
 hello and welcome to tcs. condolences on the loss of binks.  i hope charlie will soon settle into his new home and help heal your broken heart.   it's not uncommon for a cat to hide when first brought to a new home. here is a tcs thread on what was your cat's behavior like in the first day? that you might find interesting.  tcs also has some articles that might have some tips for you.  how to help a new cat adjust to your home how to get a cat to come out of hiding? 10 must-know tips for happy living with a shy cat 16 top cat experts share tips for dealing with timid cats 14 cat experts reveal: how to get a cat to like me  
  the bathroom in the basement where i live is very small. it’s about 30sqft. i came to spend time with him tonight around 10 and be came right out even with the door open. i was alone with him though since the rest of the family went to sleep. i gave him some rubs and picked up him and took him out of the bathroom to look around the rest of the basement . he was curious and felt comfortable since i was holding him. i took him back to the bathroom and he actually left on his own!!! he only came out for a few minutes and got scared and came back. but i am so happy that he actually left . he seems very comfortable with me so i’m not sure if he is afraid to leave the bathroom because my mom and brother are around . thanks for your reply. it is much appreciated .   
 it sounds like charlie is taking baby steps forwards, so that's good. he also seems to have chosen you as his purr-son.  hopefully as time goes on, he'll be more comfortable around your mom and brother.   do you have a picture of charlie you can post for us to see?  how to add a picture to your forum post  
 small steps......i think you are expecting too much in too short a time. if someone picked you up, put you in a cage, transported you to a place that you did not know the language or what they expected and everything was totally different then what you had been used to, i would bet it would take you a while to get used to things too. he knows you and is starting to trust you, of course your mom and brother are even more of a stranger to him and are more frightening. he may have even been abused by a man and your brother is especially scary, a lot of cats are afraid of men, they are louder and more aggressive appearing. start leaving the bathroom door open for longer periods of time, maybe even all night at bedtime and see how it goes. he may be a little more active at night right now and will explore on his own.  you saw that even in a shelter environment he rolled over and greeted you, and he has even rubbed against you and allowed you to pick him up in his new home, so all is not lost as you imagine. if he hides somewhere now, just let him there and put water, food, etc. nearby for now, he has to feel safe in order to lose his fears. i have had cats hide for several weeks and they turned out fine. you are doing good, carry him around like you were doing to build his confidence, sit quietly besides his hiding place and offer treats and talk to him. i would bet in a month he will be a whole different kitty!  
 everything the others said. this is huge for charlie and he's doing really well.  one thought, check the doors and windows to the basement. it's possible a neighborhood tom, or once tom, is marking them as his turf. that would be frightening to charlie as the marking is telling him to back off. if you find the spray spots, spray them with white vinegar, not enzyme cleaner. you want to tell the spraying cat that this is your turf not his.  
   here is a bad picture of charlie ! since he is in such a small bathroom it’s hard to get any photos of him. i left the bathroom door ajar today during our morning visit and he tried to open the bathroom door . he seems to be getting more curious which is good . i have my mom and brother visiting him separately so he could bond with them individually .     
    
 do not interfere, just let them work it out. older cats have great tolerance for kitten antics, but at some point one or the other will decide that they have had enough and give him a swat to the nose or a nip that will let him know he has gone too far. it is better that they establish their own boundaries. your involvement will just confuse both the kitten and your adult cats.  
  i like the idea but a fourth cat would be too much for me - 4 kids, 4 cats and 1 dog would do me in!   
 thanks! i’ll just keep tiring him out with playtime so he has less annoying energy.    
 does the kitten like the dog? maybe he/she can help out entertaining the kitten.    
 hello and welcome to tcs. and thank you for bringing little poppy into your home. my first suggestion was going to be a vet checkup, and schedule spaying. but you've already done that.   is she the only cat in your home? or are there other cats and/or other animals. that will make a difference as to how you help her to get used to her new environment.  if there are other pets, you will have to do introductions. if she's the only pet, it will be easier.  here are a few tcs articles that may have some tips for you. thanks again for bring her in. i hope you and poppy have a wonderful life together.   the five golden rules to bringing an outdoor cat inside how to make your home bigger (at least for your cats)  how to help a new cat adjust to your home 9 tips that will help your kitten adapt to a new apartment  playing with your cat: 10 things you need to know  good luck. keep us updated on her progress. and post a picture of her if you can. how to add a picture to your forum post  
   
   so we’ve had georgie for almost 4 weeks now. i followed all the steps of cat introductions and i think it’s going well. lulu and georgie are fine, however, mimi is still growling and hissing a bit at him when he comes near. they seem to be ok together when i am using da bird and taking turns letting each of them get it - and when georgie is tired they can sleep in the same area as each other.   when georgie walks past mimi i think she is just trying to tell him that that’s her territory but i can’t be certain. there have been no cat fights at all, and georgie is learning to back off when they tell him to. is growling at this point typical behaviour? am i at the point where i need to let them sort it out for themselves and trust that mimi is just establishing her boundaries? i’m working super hard at tiring georgie out - he’s a 6 month old hellcat right now  i’ve included photos so you can see how close they choose to be to each other...top is lulu and georgie, bottom is mimi and georgie (mimi chose to be on the couch after georgie claimed his spot by the wall, but growled a bit during their play session just prior. will continued shared play sessions help them bond?  
 they are fine. this is all normal interaction. keep playing with them together. otherwise let them be and work out the little details.  
 hello and welcome to tcs.  congrats on the new kittens.   until other members reply with comments, here's an older thread on the same topic that may be helpful. 5 month old cat suckling me when i sleep  
 as you know cats love exploring, i want to keep my cat entertained, but he doesn't enjoy toys.  my role as owner is just to give them home and healthy food. it's his choice to decide what to do with his life, death is inevitable, it's better die happy. they also can serve the purpose of their existence outside the house.  that's what i think, tell me what is the right thing to do and why. ty  edit: he doesn't trust humans, but i think if he got in trouble, a human will take him and call me, my cat wears a collar with my phone number.  
 ok! this could actually happen to my cat too, drinking toxic liquids, or get run over while sitting under cars.  thanks, i will lock my cat inside forever.   
 i understand the dilemma too. we live in a super cat friendly neighborhood, but also with many busy roads. our neighbor down the block has three cats that are indoor/outdoor and they do seem happy. but we spoke with them and they talk about the other cats they had that have been killed by cars. another guy feeds some strays and annoyed people living nearby started poisoning them. our kitty olive used to be outdoors, and had been shot in the head by a bb gun before we adopted her.  there are many dangers, and many joys. i personally look at them like a child that can’t make proper decisions. i choose to keep them indoors for that reason.  
 not really, just because they die young doesn't mean it's not the right environment for them, there's a reason to why a mother cat bring birth to 1~5 kittens and actually overpopulated. they help keeping insects and rats away, but most of us doesn't have these issues anyway.  dogs yes, they're tools for humans to use, guarding, tracing, easily trained, etc...shouldn't be kept inside, they are so dirty especially their saliva. dogs are easy-going, always happy and loyal to humans, i don't know why but that makes them real "pets".  no point in this conversation so let's just stop here, thanks for helping.   
 our roles as pet owners is more than food givers. it is the equivalent of parents and children. kids also want to do lots of things we don't let them do for their own safety and no one thinks that is cruel. it's the same with pets.  cats are not natural-they are domesticated. human intervention created them, so letting them roam outside is tampering with the natural way of things. outdoor pet cats have a huge environmental impact worldwide-birds and lizards species are dying out because of them.  as was mentioned, when cats are sick or hurt they hide instinctively. so being mauled or injured and crawling away to hide until they die is not "dying happy." felv does not cause a happy death. fiv does not cause a happy death. cats are very dangerous to each other. also, if your cat is roaming outside, they are hunting and eating mice, lizards, and birds that are full of parasites. usually worms aren't life-threatening (although they can be!) but they do make your cat feel worse, detract from their general health, and are working against the things you do to keep your cat healthy (healthy food, vet visits, etc).  and-you are spending less time with your cat if they go outside alone, and you miss things. i had a woman come donate her cat food because her cat had just passed away. he died because he had started to lose his hearing, but they didn't notice because he spent so much time outside. and he didn't hear the car start, and she backed over him while he was sleeping in her driveway. it was horrific for her.  leash walking is great! all of the benefits of outdoor enrichment with almost none of the dangers! it takes time on your part, but not having enough time to take care of your cat is not an excuse for negligence, and exposing your cat to very real and avoidable risks is indeed negligence.  excuse me for not mincing words, but i take this topic very seriously. i have heard too many horror stories from well meaning owners that could have been easily prevented. everyone who lets their cats roam free also believes their area is different and safer, but that is just not the case. the dangers are inherent to the unpredictability of the outdoors.  
 is your cat neutered? do you still have your other cats? does he have playmates?  
 my point is that people fixate on one source of danger (ex: cars), decide, correctly or incorrectly, that this factor is not as significant in their area, and use that as an argument for why their cat specifically should be allowed to go outside. but the rest of the dangers are still there. some might even be worse-for example an area with low car traffic might attract more feral cats, which are dangerous themselves. plus the whole idea that some outside dangers is better than lots of outside dangers is weird to me, when you have the option to cut it down to no outside dangers. most cats, with work, patience, and effort from their humans, can adapt to living happily inside only, and if that doesn't seem like an option, harness training solves those problems (or if you have the skills or money to build one, an outdoor catio).   
 harness is a great idea. what if,for a medical reason in the future or unfriendly pets she needs to stay inside but doesn't want to? even if you can't find a toy for her add in a cat tree. mine is 72in. i have a cat that likes to chase wand toys on the floor,another likes air prey,and another likes me to throw toys  
 hi alice. i sympathize with the feeling that trapping cats in an apartment must make them unhappy, but rationally i am on a boat of keeping cats indoors only. while i think it is true that a cat exploring will be a happy cat - in the moment, i can't ignore the fact that they just don't have the ability to see far ahead. i mean when i was a kid i wanted to do a lot of things that could very realistically get me killed or kidnapped, thankfully i wasn't allowed to do them, and that's basically how i see cats. maybe not every "outdoor" is as dangerous - a garden would probably be fine. but a world full of cars, predators and occasional psychopaths - is a world i think too dangerous for defensive creatures like cats. i really think it's worth investigating some other entertainment options in safer environment, or walking with harness, or if you choose to let them go outside maybe chipping them.  hope, the reply didn't come off as judgemental, i am a bit paranoid cat parent, if i can't find the cat for 10 seconds my mind thinks the worst. can't imagine letting him outside, i've already seen 3 nightmares where he is lost outside.   
 bring the cat in. keep her in your bathroom or spare bedroom if you have other cats. take her to the vet to be evaluated for any injuries. if the vet determines that her injuries are consistent with abuse, the vet staff will know who to report it to. the apartment management may have camera footage of the incident, but this is up to the investigating agency to figure out.   first step for you: get kitty to the vet to document her injuries. they can't do anything without a professional saying that a crime occurred.  
 she's a sweetie. i'm so happy also that you took her in. she deserves a loving home. please take her to the vet and get her checked out. then get her some food and litter.  
 cat is doing great. i'll spare you the details of what the vet told me he thinks happened to her. what is important is that she is fine now, staying with me indoors, won't be going out anytime soon!  
 maybe so, i definitely think she grew up around humans from the time she was a kitten. she is so trusting. i spoke to a couple of my neighbors who told me she was just as affectionate to them, purring, rubbing against their feet, rolling around on the floor at the mere sight of them. definitely one of a kind, at least for me. i'm sure people on this forum have been around loving cats before but for me, having owned a cat 5 years ago, being around multiple of my friends' cats, and other strays, this is a first!   
 even more reason to believe you are her guardian angel.   
 most males stop spraying after they are neutered... it's definitely worth a try. even if he remains an outdoor ranch cat, it would probably improve his quality of life to be neutered... un-neutered male cats can become very frustrated and unhappy if they don't get to mate often enough, which is one of the reasons male cats spray and howl so much.  
 the world doesn't need any more unwanted cats. and he's probably already knocked up a few lady cats.  i'd have him neutered now and let him stay on the ranch for another month or so. then you can try to bring him inside. i wouldn't try bringing him back before he's neutered, especially if the landlord is cranky.  
 @willowy is right. he probably will remember the litter box, and there is a litter called cat attract, along with lots of other litter choices. his evolutionary purpose doesn't mean anything since didn't you say the ranch owners were responsible cat people and got everyone fixed? plus, do you really want more unwanted kittens running around?  ok there's my soapbox. anyway, he'll probably remember a lot   
 talking to her is a good idea. it can be hard to figure out what is right for the kitty and for you guys. i would still get him neutered (and if he isn't, microchipped. outdoor cats are sometimes taken in as strays) and let him heal on the farm while you guys come to a decision.  you said that your landlord doesn't allow pets? it might be best to wait and find out if there is a way to legally keep a cat before bringing one in. i've unfortunately seen too many loving pets have to be rehomed because they weren't allowed in a home that was rented.   either way, your cat is with someone who loves him. both of you have given him a wonderful life, don't forget that, no matter the out-come.   
 for those of you that remember me, my maine coon boy, alaska, is a year old now. he's at least 23lbs. our scale only goes to 11lbs and he hasn't been to the vet for a month or two.  anyway, alaska never purred. when he was a kitten, i thought he just wasn't into that mushy stuff; he's very active and was a delightfully insane kitten. but as he got older, calmed down, became more affectionate, and we developed a very strong bond, still no purr.  is it possible that he just can't purr? is that a thing that happens?    
 i thought for years that hekitty didn't purr, and wondered if she was happy. then one day i had my hand on her just right and felt it...a tiny vibration, like the heartbeat of a hummingbird. she purrs! and she's shorthaired...with a boy like yours, and that long, lush coat, you might not feel a gentle, soft purr. that said, every inch of him looks relaxed, serene, and happy in that picture.  
 not to hijack the thread, but there are any number of maine coon cat rescues...you can do both, you know!   
 she may have a uti, a urinary tract infection. i would suggest, for her comfort, and for yours, having a vet check her, and getting her spayed asap. it will do wonders for her, and help prevent some cancers that are hormone driven. your males would be protected by neutering, as well.  
 hi everyone! i’m new here, this is my first post! i have two female ragdolls, lulu (8) and mimi (7). they get along very well and always have. we have recently introduced a neutered himalayan male kitten (5 months old) in the home. i have tried to follow all the steps of cat intros, as listed in the article, with segregating/scent swapping (stage 1), then feeding on either side of a door (stage 2), and viewing each other through a glass door (stage 3). i have been swapping the cats on either side of the door so they can get each other’s scent better. i also have 2 feliway diffusers on different floors of the house.  my question is what signs do i look for to know when i can allow them to meet face to face? mimi is very timid and has been growling and hissing through the door to this point, but i noticed that she didn't do that this morning. she also did not like to eat too close to the door when the kitten was eating on the other side, but this morning she was able to eat side by side with him, separated by the door.   can someone help direct my next steps? i really want this to go well for everyone’s sake. i’ve found that all the articles are more specific with approximately how long each stage might take, but have seen very little on how to know when to proceed from stage 3. thank you in advance for all your help!  
 it sounds like they can even reach paws under if they want to. are the girls interested if you play with the kitten in front of the door?  if mimi is till comfortable at the next meal it might be safe to try a face to face. at 5 mts he'd be able easily climb a baby gate but if the girls can get above him it could work.  
  so was able to feed the resident ladies on one side of the door with kitten right there. no hissng/growling...ready for stage 3???  
 everyone had great comments, i'll just add that a large piece of cardboard makes a great shield to separate or herd cats in a very safe and neutral way. hope things go well!  
 that is very sad, but what a lucky kitty to be twice loved.  
 i'm insanely jealous! my body is living in a high rise condo but my soul occupies a house similar to yours.    
 i love the way you put that! it's perfect.   
 thanks. it just seems to fit what is going on.  
 hi there! i just joined because of a frightening issue i had with my cat. we were going about our day, just like normal, i woke up to her meowing and nibbling on my chin, but then at about midday she fell asleep by me and started shaking pretty hard. it was concerning so i said, "maple, wake up. you're having a nightmare." when she didn't wake up, i got a little scared. i lifted her head. it was heavy and extremely limp. when i took away my hand, her head fell down like she was dead. i picked her up and lightly shook her-- she was still looking dead. i started crying and shook her harder and then after about 10 seconds she woke up. i was so scared. since then she's been acting completely normal, but a little drowsier than normal. is this a seizure or deep sleep?  
 @susanm9006 i don't know the number of our vet, my mom does. btw it happened again, but it seems to only occur when she's sleeping. it may be that they caused loss of consciousness. thank you for your support. recently we switched her to tuna instead of wet food because of the carbs. do you think this has anything to do with it?  
 i hope that you don’t mean regular people food canned tuna? that isn’t a complete enough diet for a cat. i don’t know if it can cause seizures but it isn’t a good diet for a cat. there are wet cat foods with tuna in them that are fine.  
 i would get her on regular cat food just as fast as you can, hopefully her next meal. how old is she and how long has she been eating only tuna? also when you talk to your vet, tell them about the tuna diet. feeding tuna exclusively can cause mercury poisoning.  
 @susanm9006 she's 7 months old and we started feeding her tuna about three cans ago. we can do that. we got her 1 month ago. she goes through 1 can a day. since she's skinny, we feed her when she meows at us for food. she has a very distinctive food meow.  
 @jen we've researched and concluded that they're probably just dreams and deep sleep but we'll be seeing a vet. and we aren't starving her, she does eat until she's not hungry. she's just got that type of build. weirdly long legs, weirdly long body-- she's born that way.  
 i have been debating buying the feliway diffusers for a few months but haven't gotten around to it yet. but yesterday i reached a bit of a breaking point with rory, and i need to do something.   i love rory so much but she is a very aggressive cat. i've had her since she was 5 weeks old, she is 8 going on 9 now but as she gets older her aggression gets worse. she has bitten/scratched every single member of my family several times and she routinely goes after her brother charlie and my parents dog ollie. my niece is terrified of her, and will not walk by rory or go into a room if she is in it. she is generally pretty sweet to my mom and i but she can turn on even us in the blink of an eye, for no reason. you just have to walk by her sometimes. its almost like she doesn't even recognize us when she is in that state.   last night she was sitting on my chest and she was licking my face. when i moved my face away she bit me hard in the face twice. when i went to move her off me she went for my neck and again bit me hard. i finally got her down and she growled the whole way. she can be quite nasty.   do you guys find that feliway works for aggression? i need to do something to stop this behaviour. its only getting worse as she gets older. she has been around all of us since she was a kitten i just can't understand it.  
 she has been the vet before for it, and everything was normal. she was just there a few weeks ago for a different issue and they did a full work up on her and everything was normal. i have never broached the subject of mood stabilizers with her though. i don’t want to medicate her unless i have to.   the worst of her behaviour has come out at my parents house. i have bought the cat tree her and brother uses it but she doesn’t, she hasn’t loads of places she hides there and no one bothers her because she is such a beast. she has a screened in room that she loves in the summer time, and on mild days in the winter. she only spends weekends there. she mostly lives with my in my apartment. for awhile her behaviour at the apartment was awesome but now it’s getting bad there as well. it’s just her, my boyfriend and i so it’s pretty quiet. i’ve tried leaving her for the weekend with him when i go out my parents but she gets very sick when i leave her. she can flop on the floor and want attention. you can let her for awhile and then she will turn on you all of a sudden, and for no reason.  i bought her a cat tree for my apartment and it should actually be getting delivered today. i have lots of low windows, and i always move th curtains away is she can see out. i have tons of toys for her, i try and pay with her but her preference is the ‘dead’ toys.  surprisingly she is an awesome traveler.  
 have you tried the feliway?  
 i did speak to my vet about her behaviour at great length. my vet thinks the behaviour is coming from boredom. we have been adding more things to enrich her environment. i have added a bird feeder to a window and she will spend hours watching the birds, we are rotating her toys, we have gotten her food puzzles and are hiding her food around the house. her behaviour has been pretty good for the most part. we recently bought a house, so once we move in i plan on making doing more things to enrich the environment for her.   my vet wants to try this route before agreeing to medicate her. when we do see behaviour my vet told me to ignore her and the behaviour.   i did get a flyway diffuser, it seemed to help a bit but it does get very hot.   i fully understand that her behaviour is not acceptable. i've done everything in my power to stop it and to help her at the same time, i'm a responsible pet owner.  
  .  
 i don't mind you asking! rory has not been declawed. i have had people recommend that i declaw her but i refuse, its cruel in my opinion.   she has always been a bit of a cranky pants but it got worse after we got another cat. and then her behaviour got even worse after my parents got a dog. she is much more relaxed when she's at my apartment, she's the only pet with us currently. once we move i'm taking my other cat, charlie though, i'm hoping if i get the environment ready for it before hand that it won't wreck any progress that we have made.  
 good on you. i'm glad you refuse. it is a cruel practice in my opinion and i think her behaviors would probably only get worse if you did it. just wanted to rule that out before giving my two cents!  my friend has a cat with similar behavioral problems and she keeps caps on his nails to avoid nasty, unpredictable scratches. that's also an option.  rory sounds like a classic case of the "napoleon" cat, in the words of jackson galaxy. she is over territorial / overcompensating her dominance for whatever reason because she feels insecure in the ownership of her territory, perhaps. it sounds like you are doing everything right and have probably significantly reduced the behaviors by enriching her environment as much as possible and keeping her with you by herself. she probably gets worse when there are other animals around because of this reason. and some cats are also very sensitive to stimulation (being petted, etc) which might be why she's attacking you after vying for your attention as well. she sounds like she needs a lot of patience! thank you for always doing your best for her!   
 perhaps of little help, but...  we tried the feliway when aggie and allie started their hissing, etc. i didn't see that it made a measurable difference in our case.  we ran two of them in different rooms for about two weeks. perhaps it was too soon...but something i read about them gave me pause for concern.  i was trying to find out if having a windows open would hurt it's efficiency. the maker's response was that the refills won't last as long. seems to me that if there's a breeze the product would not be as effective. while i suppose that could have some impact on how long a refill would last...my bigger concern was that if the "scent" is diluted due to a breeze...it won't work as well.  we only had so much time to make a return, so we only used them about two weeks. our vet also sold me some very expensive treats ($50 a bag!!) that are supposed to help. only one cat would eat them.  
 i'm planning on adding more shelves and higher places for her once we move to the new house. its hard since we are renting to do anything like that at the moment.   she is definitely territorial. the biggest trigger for the behaviour is me. typically when rory and i are at my parents house together she is very nasty. but there has been a few occasions where i'm not at their house with her and she is good as gold for them if i'm not around. the second i arrive the nastiness comes out in her.  
 where do you get those? i have been wanting to do that   
 thanks so much! we will try this to begin with.  
 i have 4 cats. one female & 2 males are 8 years old. one male is 1.5 years old and he's been with us for a year. the female gets along fine with the two 8 year old males - but not the 1.5 year old male. i've separated them twice; once for two weeks and again for a couple months. each time i fed them on opposite sides of a cracked door, then replaced the cracked door with a screen door. they ate within 3 feet of each other on opposite sides of the screen door - no issues. she just will not get close to 'touch noses,' and meet him etc, and she just growls when he's close (when not eating).  since that was unsuccessful, i am currently trying to use a huge 3-shelf cat cage. putting him in it for a short while, then her, letting each roam free when the other's in it. when he's in it, she is fine but won't go anywhere near the cage. when she's in it, he is curious and approaches and/or walks away and minds his own business - tail up, calm, fine, seemingly not bothered at all by her actions.  regardless of what he does - even if he's just laying quietly a couple yards away paying her no mind, she continuously growls. if he gets closer, she growls louder and her ears go back.   he will happily play when she's in there as well - and when he's playing she doesn't growl, but watches him cautiously.  once in a great while, she gets a little bit growly with one of the other 8 year olds - but only when he's mildly tormenting her by invading her space.   they have plenty of space - especially vertical. cat shelves on walls, 7' tall sisal posts, cat furniture, etc.  it's only been a few days of trying to introduce them with the cage method, and i'll keep at it for a few weeks - but if anyone has gone through this or has any advice on how to get her to approach and befriend him, i would very much appreciate it!  
 you can't force cats to be friends. if all that is going on is a little growling, i'd just let them be. your basically trying a reintroduction process, which is something that is recommended for continuing or a new batch of problems, but i'm pretty skeptical it will lead to progression if all you have is a dislike with growling situation. if you have actual fighting that is different, a reintroduction is worth a shot.  a lot of times, its kind of inevitable that there will some continuing tension because the youngster is just too active and it bugs the sedentary older cat. mine are still a little bit that way, 3 years later.  
 maybe this sort of introduction through the next few months as he's (hopefully) getting out of the teenage stage and approaching 2 yrs - maybe just maybe things will be better. maybe they wont be bff's but bare minimum, coexist. oh geez i would never ever scold them.  hoping that over time as she seems him just walk around normal and happy and not have any interest at all in attacking her that she'll calm down a little.  
 3 eight year old cats that are used to their routine and life and pecking order aren't automatically going to be thrilled about a 1.5 year old young hipster invading their 'turf. growling and stuff is normal and fine, especially since it sounds like everyone has their "own" area that they can retreat to.  it's upsetting, but she handled it well.  to be blunt, the young cat sounds like a bit of a nerdy guy who doesn't respect "cat talk" from older cats, and sometimes they do need a good pummeling to drive the point home that pouncing on a cat that's telling them "don't do it" helps them learn. if he bailed when she gained ground after a few seconds, he might start to get the picture.  at this point (you've had him a year), if you catch him targeting/closing in, i'd snatch him off the ground wordlessly and put him in another room and lock him in for a few minutes. if he won't listen to the others, he might listen to you if you tell him that stalking routine is 100% unacceptable!   
 will stay updated!   
 hi all,  a month ago, my 1 year old female cat cinnabon started pooping and peeing in one specific corner of the first floor. she still used her litter box, but it would be about 50/50 for litter box/corner.   to remedy this, i put a second litter box down where the corner is, and she started using that litter box. so now she has two litter boxes and uses both of them.   the problem now is that this corner where the second litter box is, is in our dining room. for obvious reasons, this is not ideal. first, we are supposed to have company over this weekend and i don't want to gross people out by having them eat right next to a litter box. the bigger issue is that i don't want to have the litter box there long-term.   however, i'm terrified that if i move the box somewhere else, she's going to start going on the carpet again! i don't know what it is about that spot that is so appealing. before putting the second box there, i cleaned the carpet there thoroughly 3x already to get rid of the smell, and she peed there afterwards anyways. her other litter box is in a quiet, private area in the upstairs bathroom, always clean, the same litter we've been using for ages, etc.   any suggestions/tips for how to move the second box successfully?  
 first, thoroughly clean the carpet in that corner with a good enzymatic cleaner so that she cannot smell herself there anymore. then (and this will take some time) begin edging the box, a few inches at a time, into a more appropriate place. that, or get a really good odor control litter and a pretty screen for the box, or something like this:   there are several variations on this theme. a quick google will bring up lots of options.  
 thanks guys! i'll try these suggestions.  
 do let us know what worked for you!  
 hi all,  i've previously posted about my re-intro saga and just wanted some feedback for what's been happening. since non pet parents think i'm nuts, i just wanted to reiterate how thankful i am for places like this.   here goes:  i'm still site swapping. about a month ago, i started putting the girl (non aggressor) in the carrier for a few while i let the boy (aggressor) roam the rest of the house. then i open the flap to the carrier, give them all treats and stay close. i'd do this for no more than 30 min. i started to notice how the boy would approach, they'd smell each other with no reaction and a few times i saw soft licks from both parties - a good sign right? i did this at least twice a day and noticed that in the evening after they ate and before swapping, the boy would come and lay in front of it and they'd both just sleep there for a bit. she intially wouldn't try and leave the carrier and i didn't push either way - just observed. even more progress right?  after 2 weeks of this, i started to see my girl become more confident and actually stand up and try and walk out. the first few times that i caught a vibe from him like it wouldn't last, i wouldn't let her go to far without motioning for her to go back into the safety of the carrier. then i noticed how the minute he didn't see her in the carrier, he'd stop whatever he was doing, go searching and then run up on her. i was pretty good at sensing and stopping things before they went left so there were no fights up until 2 weeks ago.  this particular morning, all were out and relaxed. it was like old times. she was on my bed sleeping and he was going on like he did before they fought - bird watching and playing with his toys. after a while, he climbs up the bed and lays down next to her. they eventually start playfully slap boxing -a soft paw here, a soft paw there. then it got &$#* real. in breaking it up, he caught me in the vein on my hand and i ended up with a trip to urgent care. what fun and expensive times, i tell you.  my first and probably obvious question is, ***? while being seperated (they can fully smell and see each other) they don't react negatively at all. they smell each other and paw at each other playfully. the boy is fixed. all are heathy. i'm following expert protocol with the site swapping. why is he such a dick to her now? i have another cat who he fine with.   second question, is there any other technique i could use that i haven't already tried....and believe me i've tried alot...(pheromone this, flower essence that, cbd, reiki).   thanks for reading...  
 i'll admit that i did not read up on your other threads, so this may have been covered, but, you posted that you boy is neutered...is your girl spayed as well? and how old is she? depending on how old she is (fluctuating hormones) if she's not spayed, he could be reacting to that, some male cats can still exhibit "non neutered" behaviors sometimes.  
   that said, reese is starting to get some teefies! gosh her breath stinks due to the changes going on in her mouth...but that's not the issue. she's obviously a teething baby. chewing on things, whining, pretty tender in the mouth...i've been keeping an eye on her little molars coming through and the gums seem a wee bit red around the teeth.   is there anything i can do to help her through the process? i heard that you can get teething toys for kittens but when i search them i can't find anything! just dog stuff and regular cat toys. could i give her some iced wet food to chew on or something? i just don't know!  
 that photo of reese is wonderful!  sometimes you can dampen a wash cloth with cool water, wring it out, and let them chew on that.  
 my dog was pretty well cat sized as a puppy, so we used to freeze a damp wash cloth. it stayed pretty soft.  
 back when gizmo was teething, i used both the wiggle worm and the mint stick that @danteshuman linked. he did chew on both quite a bit. the wiggle worm could be put in the fridge for a little while if your kitty wants it cool! chewy also has some silver vine catnip twigs that my cats enjoy chewing on even now so they may be a good option for a teething kitty too, although they are a bit pricey!  
 thank you guys! that's what i was looking for, just couldn't find them anywhere! i'll definitely order a couple of those teething toys when i order my cat litter from chewy. in the meantime though i'll definitely try out the wet rag idea asap and see how she takes to it. hopefully i can give this girl some relief! does anyone know how long the teething pain usually lasts?  
    
 greg like his tummy rubbed and scratched for a minute ir two....he will stretch out for you to "properly" rub him.   but arnold will fall asleep in your lap while you rub his tummy.....except you need two hands to hold him so this is best done on the couch where you can properly attend to his needs.   
 salem likes his chest rubbed. i can rub his belly for a couple of minutes. dante i can pet his belly for 30 seconds before he gets annoyed. which is such a shame because he has the cutest jiggly belly.  
 belly rubs? yes, please. more, please. and stop looking at that silly monitor when you could rub my belly instead!  
 loves them when she wants one. if i give her one when she doesn't want one, i'm worse than hitler.  
 you named them after the cartoon? i think they are all cute ... though your grey kitty (rick?) is adorable    
 haha yep! love rick and morty! rick (the grey one) also has the biggest personality. a real sweetheart who warms up to new kittens in the snap of your fingers. he's been a great mentor to the foster kittens we've rehomed.   
 yes! the orange is colby jack and the brown is monterey jack. your two look so similar to them, haha. so cute!   
 oh wow my boys are 20 weeks (5 months) today. i bet you my guys are bigger though haha. you should totally get a girl! find one that looks like zelda xd   
  my cat is absolutely bonkers for belly rubs. not every cat is, and that’s ok, but i have to admit it makes me happy that he trusts me enough for a bully rub.  
      
 right now!     
 my cat does not like belly rubs at all. keep your hands away from that sacred place.  
 oh sure make me jealous! i started rubbing dante's/thepunk's belly when i get annoyed with him hunting his brother..... than i play with him.  
   she adores them.  
 my two love belly rubs, though toffee will tell me when he's had enough by grabbing onto my hands and trying to bite them! when they both lay on their backs or on their sides, it usually means they want their tummy to be rubbed.  
    
 only raja. walk into a room and she will roll onto the floor, lift up her front paws and lay there until you rub the belly. she isn't picky about who does the rubbing either...she'll tempt anyone with it!  
 oh man, mika looooves belly rubs. she does a really adorable flop too but she tucks her head like she's rubbing her head on whatever surface is under her to flip her belly up. she won't lay on her back but she'll expose most of it to the side.  we loves the bellies over here.  (the picture is from when she was very sick and just got home from the hospital, so yes, i know she's incredibly jaundiced. we haven't taken any new belly pics since then.)   
 my new ginger kitty is probably 1.5 years old. he loves belly rubs and licks my hand and arm while i go at it. he nibbles sometimes.  im thinking that hes showing the same love he recalls his mother giving him. so, he just loves me to death lol.  
 i adopted 4 years old sombra 3 months ago. she is sweet and gentle and loves her tummy rubbings.   
 and this ...  
 this is funny - i was just thinking about this the other day, wondering how cats got the reputation of hating to have their bellies rubbed! of the 5 cats i've had, all but 1 have loved to have their bellies rubbed. they often will lay next to me when i'm watching tv and i'll just rest my hand on their belly. if i'm laying down, they'll rest their back against my chest and i'll hug them to myself with my hand on their belly. the first cat i owned didn't like it much, but she wasn't as cuddly as my other cats in general. she preferred to lay near me versus on me/touching me, whereas all my other cats like to be right up on my lap or touching me somehow. one of my cats even "weaponized" her belly - she knew i absolutely couldn't resist squatting down and rubbing it (it was soooo cute! ^.^ ) so whenever she wanted some attention and i was busy, she'd flop over in the middle of the room or hallway and expose her tuxedo belly to the sky. i had no defense for such an attack - even when i was running late, it always succeeded in its mission! lol  in addition to my cats, all the cats i've either baby-sat for or had close contact with (like my sister's cats) have liked belly rubs. so just the other day, as i was squatting down giving a belly rub to a visiting 4-year-old cat, i was wondering how cats got this reputation of attacking people who tried to rub their bellies!  i wonder if rubbing their bellies when they're babies helps them to like it or if it's just on a cat-by-cat basis, no matter what you do when they're little? my 1 year old cat used to bite me any time i tried to pet her at all, whether it was her belly or anywhere else. now, however, she loves being petted - especially around her neck and on her belly.  the weaponized impossible-to-resist tuxedo belly:   
 @dustydiamond1 so cute and fluffy!  
 sombra doesn't turn around to expose her tummy asking for a rub but when i do rub her she likes it and never fails to lick my hand while i am doing it. sometimes i rub her tummy when she is curled up on her cat tree on a level close to my face; she will then turn her head from my hand to lick my face. in other words she loves it when she gets it but never takes the initiative to ask for it.  my late cat cucumella did not offer her tummy very often but she did occasionally and was then happy to get a good rubbing. if i took the initiative and she didn't feel like it she just moved away but was never aggressive.  
  also soft like a bunny and sweet as sugar    
 my old boy cali (  ) was obsessed with emery boards - so much so that we had to have spares on hand at all times if we wanted to be able to file our nails in peace! i've no idea what it was about them that he loved so much, but the definitely had an almost magnetic attraction for him :lol3:  
 my cat chessy loves emery boards too! he goes crazy over them, and he's 14 and doesn't get excited about too much   
 both of my boys love playing with my emery boards, but i wouldn't go as far as to say they go 'crazy' over them. keeker especially likes to carry them around in his mouth like they are a t-bone steak and dare anyone to take it from him!  it's very possible that the emery board is constructed with seccotine glue, which is a liquid fish glue for use in gilding and as a binder in gesso because it remains flexible after drying. i used gesso a lot to prime my canvasses, but i haven't done any painting since i've gotten the boys. i just can't seem to get up the nerve to have open tubes of paint and various brushes lying around with 2 cats in the house!  it's bad enough they run off with my pencils and gum erasers all the time! lol   
 cookie never did this when i fed beast taste of the wild, but since i've switched him to zignature turkey, she's constantly trying to steal some! it's weird because if i get a sample bag of cat food with large pieces she won't touch it, yet dog kibble is far larger than that and she's trying to dive straight in! it's too bad they don't make zignature for cats.   my aunt's cat was always trying to take any dog food i dropped, but she's a pig so that was expected.   do your cats have a thing for dog food?  
 hi! maybe this will help; how to keep the dog out of the cat’s food and vice versa  
 mine weren't interested in eating the dogs' food, neither is sweet gum. however, since a free fed them - filled up an old fashioned dishpan with dog food - the cats did seem to enjoy sleeping in the dog food.  (note the dogs maintained their proper weight, whether due to their various mixing of breeds or because they didn't like the food much, i don't know.)  the dogs did learn to wait until the cats finished eating then they got to wash the kitty dishes. there was more of a hint and a promise left rather than food.  
 she's little, he's big, she knows it. probably felt intimidated in the shelter too. they are both fighting for being the dominant one. not sure who will win that one - might be her!!!! (yay, for chick power! no, just joking.)   the only part that bugs me is him putting his ears back, but it sounds as if he is actually walking away after that, so may not be a big deal.   give it time. don't let it escalate to any sort of deliberate injury. one of them will establish dominancy and when that is done, things should settle down quite a bit.  
 they are being very normal half grown kittens having fun. it is rough and loud and sometimes you swear they are trying to kill one another. but no one gets hurt except an occasional scratch. now furniture and knick knacks are another thing. put away as much small stuff as you can, make sure none of the large stuff can tip over and also make sure there is at least one tall cat tree to get away from one another or to extend the chase upward.  despite the screaming, howling or hissing you may hear, it is best to let them sort it out themselves.  
 it sounds like very energetic kitten playing. if it helps any, these are my two playing. my male was 13 pounds at the time of this video while the female was 8 pounds.    my girl joined our family at just over a pound (3-4 months old too) when my boy was a 10 pound year old. they played together from the moment i allowed them around each other. she's never let her smaller size be an issue and they really get along great. he usually pushes a little too far, she hisses at him. he will stop and sometimes she leaves it at that; other times she's a little brat and jumps him from behind.   for the food, i'd mointor feeding times. there are three cats in my house. my two are very much cooperative about food. i joke that if i throw a treat between them they will be saying:  "oh no, you have it"  "no, that's yours"  "are you sure?" "of course, i'll get the next one."  meanwhile my mom's cat will swoop in and eat the treat from between them. my two wait in line for the dry food dish (not even joking, my mom's has been eating and my two wait quietly in a line behind him). they will quietly and patiently wait if the other is eating wet food to see if they leave anything (and my boy always leaves his sister a few bites). my mom's cat though will eat himself sick and steal right out from the others nose. he will even push them out of their bowl when he has food in his.   the whole point being, i supervise meal time when needed to make sure everyone gets their share of dinner. dry food is fine because we free feed but dinner is wet and portioned. your boy may never learn that he needs to leave the girls food alone. so you'll have to step in. other options include feeding in separate rooms or getting a microchip feeder so they can only get in their own food.   
 @kieka, i love this video and your two beautiful cats. count on a siamese to even be dramatic about play. growling and hissing while she waits on her back for more!  
 ahh glad you were able to spay the mama!  the new brothers certainly sound really skittish! do they behave more calmly when you ignore them? do they try to walk up to you at all?   personally i would suggest holding off on trying to force attention on them. let them proceed at their own pace and do what is comfortable for them. if they try to grab at your hand, let them have the food, but don't reach for them. if they are comfortable, your hand out with the food and let them sniff it. if they rub their cheeks on your hand, you can try petting their cheeks, but don't go overhead. if they're even unsure about that, then go back to letting them take the wheel. also, avoid direct eye contact for now, or at least until they get more comfortable since they see eye contact as a dominance/power thing, and can get nervous. baby steps!   i've been doing this with a stray cat that's been visiting my place nightly for food for nearly two years now. at first he wouldn't even come several meters near me, and would wait for a looong time after i'm back in the house before even coming up to the food. now, he would venture into the house to call for me when he's here, and would actually sit and watch near me while i prepare his meal! still wouldn't let me do anything with him though, but still, huge progress!  
 we have a cat who inhales her wetfood as well and can bother her "brother" when shes done and it has been a problem for him and we got a bowl to slow her down. we've also had her puke up her entire meal because she ate it so fast. so we heat their food up in the microwave (we have always done this since the wet food comes out of the refrigerator and i've read food that cold can mess with their stomach) and then mix marcy's food with some water and put it in a bowl that looks like this. it has slowed her down considerably and he actually finishes before her now.  
 i guess so, my boy does that at the slightest sound. sometimes he just jump up. he was an abandoned kitty with a serious injury and he was traumatized and he was all alone when he was rescued.   so i think your boy might have experience something unpleasant.  
 i adopted a cat that had been abused and abandoned. i adopted her almost immediately after she was abandoned. someone abandoned her in the bed of a friend's pick-up truck. him and his room mate found her when they decided to get food. she was taken inside immediately. she did let my friends pick her up to bring her inside. once she was inside though all she did was hide behind the couch when anyone was home. she would eat and go to bathroom when they were asleep or at work. she lived there for 2 days before my friend's landlord threatening to kick them out if she was not gone. i adopted her right away. i had to kick my friend's out of their apartment and it took me two hours to lure her out from behind the couch. i had to use lunch meat on a plate. my friend's knew nothing about cats and were giving her human food when she would not eat cat food.   once i got baby-t to my apartment i noticed her back leg looked infected and she was limping. i took her to the vet the next day. she had to have her leg drained due to the infection. i had to put her pain meds in baby food on a spoon to get her to eat. she was too scared to eat cat food of any kind. the vet also took x-rays and found broken bones in her body from being kicked that had healed wrong. once the infection went away so did the limp so the vet and i made the decision to leave her bones alone. the pain she was in was being caused by the infection. i went through hell trying to get her to eat. my vet gave me a long handled spoon and told me to use baby food to gain her trust. i did eventually get her to realize it was safe to eat cat food. she hid constantly when i first adopted her. the chosen hiding spot was my room mates laundry pile. she was sorting clothes on her floor before doing laundry. we actually shared my clothes for two weeks so we would not traumatize the cat. she bonded with the other cats in the household before the humans.  based on my personal experience i would say that pixie is easily startled for some reason. in my experience a cat that has been abused does not trust that quickly. if there was abuse it may have been an isolated incident instead of long-term. perhaps try petting him in different places and make sure that he can see your hands approaching. my baby-t did learn to fully trust humans again but it took time and patience.  
 for what it’s worth, my krista has lived 12 of her 14 years with me. she will flinch if you go for top of the head but she’ll meet you halfway if you go for a cheek. it could be that you’re just petting him wrong as far as he’s concerned.  
 i'm in the same position as @sabrinah , i have had both of my cats since they were kittens. the more skittish one tends to be more jumpy. if i go to pet her without warning she flinches and runs. it is just her personality. to counteract this i try to make my interactions with her as predictable and understandable as possible. before going to pet her i always say "do you want a pet?" so she knows it is coming. you could try this with pixie.  
 i’ve had my mia 9 of her 10 years. she is very bonded to me and always has to be on me... but has always flinched when i go to pet her head. sometimes even walks away. but doesn’t if go pet her chin or side of her face. it might just be an instinct... they can’t see what’s going to happen to the top of their heads.  
 well, @rubysmama got here first with the articles and advice i was thinking of as i read your post! let us know what the vet says, and we can go from there!  
 i agree, a vet visit is in order - the vet will hopefully ask all the right questions to help zero in on possible issues that could cause this new behavior. have the older cats 'accepted' moonlight? if not entirely, she could be reacting to continued 'rejection'. there are a myriad of reasons, so write up a list of possible contributors to this behavior, and if your vet doesn't hit on all them, bring them up to him/her.   if your sofa is fabric (vs. leather), you might want to buy the equalizer (amazon.com) and use it. unlike so many other products, this one does not require you to totally saturate the area for it to clean/clear poop/pee residue/smells.  
 my first thought, especially since you are dealing with a shelter kitten (and thank you for adopting!), was a possible uti. there would be discomfort when urinating, and cats tend to blame the box for that, not their own anatomies! since she was a shelter kitty, she should be vetted asap, anyway.  let us know how she is doing!  
 advice needed  i have a 3 year old female cat and the kitten( 12 weeks) .  we did everything to introduce them. the kitten has his own room(the whole of first floor) with supplies( food, water, litter, toys) and misha(resident cat) had the rest of the house(ground floor) and outside. when they are in the same room(the ground floor )the kitten always goes towards misha and and wants to play but misha hisses and runs away. the kitten doesn’t give up and follows misha around. the good thing is when i put food, they both eat peacefully while keeping an eye on each other but no hissing. its already 1.5 weeks the kitten is home. when i feel its too much for misha, i separates them and the kitten is in his room. most of the time, misha chooses to go outside.  this morning, i let them together again, still hissing but seems like the kitten is learning not to come too near to misha. i feel misha is unhappy and stressed and she prefers to stay out of the house most of the time(because of the heat in belgium) my husband and i are sleeping separately, one with each cat so misha doesn’t feel left out.  what would you recommend to do for them to atleast tolerate each other so that we do not have to separate them anymore and let both roam freely in the house. am i doing something wrong? what should i do to make misha and the kitten get along ? what should i do so misha isnt stressed out? thank you vey much for the help  
 hello and welcome to tcs. congrats on the new kitten. sorry your misha is not impressed with her new sibling. hopefully once the kitten gets older they'll be best buds.   some of misha's hissing will likely be her teaching the kitten "cat manners". generally as long as there isn't fur flying or blood, and the kitten keeps going back for more "fun", things are ok.  but don't leave them together unattended, until you are confident there won't be any fights.  here's an article that might be helpful. although i think it is probably more for introducing older cats. how to fix an unsuccessful cat introduction  also the multi-cat household  and a few on cats and stress: potential stressors in cats - the ultimate checklist six surefire strategies to reduce stress in cats  
 she does hiss and hit back. then he stays away for a while, then find another angle to attack. the picture on the seat. he was playing with misha's tail and she was moving it either to gain some peace.  exactly, she just want to sit and relax and not be annoyed but the other one just doesn't seem ylto understand. i had to take oswald off the counter 4 times and finally lock him up for a while for him to understand no eating from the counter or jumping. he still does it when im not around and when he gets caught he runs very fast away..  
 oswald is still so young, that you and misha are basically just going to have to wait until he "grows up". by the time he's a year or so, most of his extreme silliness and mischief should be over.  about the feliway alternative, here's an article on alternative treatments for cats: how to minimize the risk which may be helpful.  
 if oswald is mature enough to be trying to mate with misha, perhaps you should speak with your vet about getting him neutered sooner than 6 months.  here's the tcs article on when to spay or neuter a cat?  plus we currently have a special 3-day forum all about spaying/neutering with questions being answered by experts ms. esther mechler and dr. phil bushby from "feline fix by five" if you might want to post a specific question there.   experts from "feline fix by five" talk spay/neuter  
 you may have to, for a while, take him downstairs to his litterbox and while your there, go ahead and feed him - since he seems to 'behave' after eating...   along with the second litter box, make sure you use enzymatic cleaners to try to remove any smell left where he has pooped. if he smells it, he could likely continue to go there.  
 when i adopted willow she spent hours staring at a spot on the ceiling. i thought my former cat might be haunting the place. a couple years later, with her still staring at the ceiling on a regular basis i finally saw a two inch cob web hanging off the ceiling right at the spot where she stared. wiped it away and she was done with the staring.   
 i agree it's haunted because like i said earlier we don't have bugs or mice.   
 like something creepy  
 my cat, feeby, knows from clear across the house if i am using a bleach type cleaner in my master bathroom. she will run into the master bedroom and lay just outside the bathroom door for hours, if i let her. she will roll around - unlike anything, even catnip. when i leave the area, i do close the bathroom door, as i don't want her any closer. but, she will still sit there sniffing up the fumes long after i have left. i worry about the fumes, so i eventually chase her out of the area.  
 my ruby's preferred scratching material is, unfortunately, carpet. so i feel your pain. she does have a carpet covered cat condo, which she scratches, so maybe try getting something like that.  how old is your kitten? will he let you clip his claws? just removing the tips will help with the scratching.  and please don't declaw. it's not just removing the claw, but amputating part of the toe up to the first joint, which can cause various issues. why cats should not be declawed declawing - more than just a manicure how to best take care of cat claws  you've probably already read these, but i'll post the links in case you haven't. how to stop your cat from scratching the furniture 23 proven ways to stop a cat from scratching furniture  
 @verna davies: very cool !!! i think my ruby would love something like that. what type of glue did you use to stick the carpet to the wood?   
 i nailed it on using tacks as in photo. the head disappears into the carpet so its safe.    
 the tree i have has some carpet and sisal, although it's a plushier carpet so i'm guessing he's particular about carpet texture, too. i don't plan to declaw- i never liked it, sorry if that was a little unclear. i was posting late at night trying to divert scratching and was feeling a little stressed.  he's about 5 months now i think. if he's relaxing he'll let me clip them and he is due for another snip, but i've only been dong just the tip because it's hard to see what i'm doing on the little guy. he's not really hard to handle but, he's got that kitten energy. also have a 2nd kitten who likes to get up close to see what's going on and then they're both distracted and trying to play. i looked at the directions for nail caps but i don't think i could get up to stay still long enough to put them on.  scratching is his only vice. the other kitten is mischievous, but happily uses whatever new scratcher i bring in, and doesn't seem so inclined to tend to his claws. me senior was great too- easy to clip, only started to scratch if he needed a trim, and loved the cardboard stuff. i feel like i was spoiled with the best kitty in the world and am just finding out how little i really know.   
 can you cover the areas on the couch with aluminum foil? that's what i currently have over the back of my sofa. it looks ridiculous, of course, but it's stopped ruby scratching there. and any area that foil won't work, maybe cover with a throw, and hope he forgets it's a great scratching post.  
 i trained cheese to not scratch in inappropriate places using sticky tape. when i first got her, she tried scratching my couch and my box spring (never understood that one, but oh well), but once i covered those up with tape, she found some other appropriate places (cat tree, door mats) and i could eventually take the tape off.  
 poppy is around nine months old.  
 it does sound like resource guarding, very common dog behavior. he's not possessive about you cuddling or petting poppy or the other cats? just them playing with you? or is it him playing with his toys with or without you? is it the toys he's possessive about or you playing with him? does he play with any of the other cats independently? do any of them play together independently? is he possessive of any of the food bowls or chase the others away from their servings or does he share or stick to his own food?  how is he with catnip? does it make him mellow or aggressive? if it makes him mellow, you could try spreading some around and letting all the cats get silly and mellow together.  when one of my cats was aggressive and attacking my new large dog for six months after i got him, i started having to tell the cat "no bad!" and literally catch him and lock him in the bathroom for a while every time i caught him attacking the dog. he learned fast. i also praised and patted him for sitting on the bed or chair with me and the dog and being peaceful. this worked very well with this cat and both my past and present dogs. but you don't want your cat to redirect his aggression onto you. i think i'd either stop playing with him altogether for now and strongly reward every time he is pleasant to the other cats, so he gets his favorite treats and rubs and praise with good cuddling or something like that when he cuddles or let's you pet him and another cat. or if you did keep playing with him, the second he went after another cat say a firm no and stop all play immediately and go find the cat he went after and make a big fuss over praising it. so he learns attacking the other cat gets him a verbal reprimand (i might be mean and shake a can or fire a water pistol or lock him in a small room for a timeout) so he has a negative association of loss of play and something unpleasant with being a bully. and the cat he attacked now gets all the praise. should teach him nothing good and all kinds of unpleasant things happen when he attacks his siblings. you have to have immediate timing though.  it's worked for me and my aggressive terrorist cat wound up bonding very strongly with both my last dog and my current dog.  
 hi! everything i'm reading in your post, the changed behavior, the straining, the vomiting has me thinking that he needs a vet visit.  can you make an appointment, and in the meantime see if a couple of meals of a 50:50 boiled unseasoned chicken and rice might possibly help get his tummy back on the right track?  
 when our senior cat (he's going to be 20 in a few days) started losing weight a few years ago, it turned out he had hyperthyroidism, which was controlled with a transdermal medication. he also developed ibd, which was keeping him from digesting his food - a steroid helped with that to a degree. he's also had kidney disease, which actually improved after we started giving him sub cutaneous fluids.  hk just had his regular wellness check, and his thyroid, kidneys and all his other values are as good or better than last time. most are well within regular range.   i've never known a cat who ate his own poop, but i had a friend with a dog who did it because - the vet said - he was missing some nutrients. and chicken or turkey won't have the vitamins, minerals or fiber cats need. for that matter, i know that most people consider it crap, but hk has been eating fancy feast for the past 15 years, and he's healthier than most cats his age. one of the vets at the office he goes to has 3 cats, all over 21 now, and they all eat only fancy feast.   i tell you this because please take your cat to the vet. our cat has had health issues but they can be dealt with. but if you don't take him to the vet, they won't be. please don't wait!  
 ok i put some revolution on him. after a couple of days he started to perk up again. between that and putting him back on the indoor formula cat food he seems to be doing a lot better. he still sleeps a lot (always has), but he's coming to bed with me at night plus he responds to the words "kitty tweets" again. he still seems to be having some problems with constipation and hasn't had any runny stools at all anymore plus he's totally stopped eating his own poop. i'm inclined to believe that his problems were worm-related but i'm not a vet and i don't play one on tv. yes he still throws up on a semi-regular basis he has for as long as i can remember), but nowhere near as often as before. he is 15 years old after all but i'll keep an eye on him. but i promise that if he has a relapse i'll take him to the vet post-haste.  
 just a suggestion. a vet visit while he's stable (with a blood panel and urinalysis) will not only give you a great base line on his health right now, better accuracy with his health at the moment (because he's not in crisis), and will probably be cheaper as you will be able to prevent a relapse, that will most likely cost more not only for treatment, but more tests usually need to be done in an emergency type situation.  
 glad he's feeling better. here's a tcs article on constipation that might be helpful: everything you need to know about constipation in cats  also, when he vomits, it is undigested food from eating too fast? or hairballs? or a clear liquid/bile? knowing the type of vomit might help narrow down the cause. here's an article: your cat throwing up?  and, if he hasn't been for a vet checkup lately, it might be good to take him while he's feeling well. it's always more worrisome to have to take them to the vet when they're ill.  
 oh dear, prayers are being sent your way!!  
  i'm so sorry  
 @furballsmom had all the best suggestions - your kitty has to become used to more territory and must be allowed to build up his own confidence.  
 about 5 months ago my cat injured the tip of her tail. although the hair has grown back, she hisses and bites at it unless she is wearing an elizabethan collar or is outside. now she always wears the collar indoors. previously she was a totally indoor cat. she acts normal outdoors and ignores her tail. tried anxiety meds, just made her loopy. tried scent distributors, no effect.  i believe the tail didn't heal properly. seriously considering tail amputation. any thought oror oth ideas are welcome.  
 vet is coming on thursday (maybe tomorrow if i get lucky) im the meantime i cleaned the bed with natures miracle within an inch of its life and are not letting them in the bedroom for like a week in an effort to break the habit (i am camping out in the spare room so they don't get stressed because i am not with them-they are used to sleeping with me). tomorrow we get some cat attract and when i do finally let them them back in i am going to make sure to give them treats and love on the bed so they think of it not as a box  do you think that will fix it (providing he does not need meds)  
 i think that's a heck of a good plan  and all the very best wishes to you!!   
 it looks like play, the black kitty is being rather dominant but your other kitty is hanging in there.  if this kind of thing goes on all the time, maybe separate them now and then so the other kitty can get a break, or do they sleep together? if they sleep all snuggled up, bathe each other and that sort of thing, then maybe never mind about separating them.     
 after about 5 min i do step in and break them up or try to give them a toy to play with instead. it happens daily for a few minutes here and there. sometimes they sleep together, sometimes the sleep in the same room, sometimes they lick each other (and sometimes that licking turns into romping). they do not actively avoid each other, eat side by side with no problem, other and sometimes sleep on top of each other on me  
 it could very well be, and i will absolutely be keeping my fingers crossed that he's back to ok!!  
 cats like to have a very set routine. your kitty shadow may be waking you up at 3:30 am to be fed because his previous owner always fed him at 3:30.   it will take him awhile to get used to his new home and get comfortable with his new life. that's most likely why he is always under your feet, and seems to be afraid of the dark.  
 not from that, no. i've had cats that have been through illnesses come out of it more loving, though.  how did he nearly die? was he at the vet and they had to bring him back? maybe some how there was a slight amount of brain damage?   
 the thing with surgery is that it's possible for blood pressure to fall during it due to medications being used and the shock of surgery itself. there's even chance of seizures (both in people and in animals) because of this. whenever the brain doesn't get enough blood and oxygen there can be damage. the degree depends on how much oxygen the brain was deprived of.   i have very low blood pressure myself and if i slip on taking my medication i start showing weird neurological symptoms due to my brain not getting enough oxygen - so i know it doesn't take much to affect the brain.   or maybe the traumatic event itself just changed your cat? it happens in people, too.  
   hi i’ve had the exact same happened to my kitty simba. he was in a really bad place and had a near death experience he also had a urinary tract infection, had to get the full works and is currently on a lot of medicine. he was slowly going back to himself then all of a sudden wanted to sleep with us. now he will come to bed with us and i’ll wipe his paws and stroke him till he is sleeping. then he’s out for the count. he sleeps between us, on top of me, in my boyfriends arms. he was never a cat that slept near us, he would usually rather sleep in the sink or on the floor. he wouldn’t come in our room. but since he got sick he’s been so affectionate and loving.   
 we are on day 11 of trying to introduce our new 1yo female cat to our resident 2yo male cat.  1yo female cat has finally warmed up to the home and her territory and seems pretty happy and confident. she is still sequestered most of the time in a room, but we've been allowing her run of the house when resident cat is napping in the garage during the day.  resident cat started off super fine with this but has been getting worse over time. he is *obsessed* with new cat's door and spends all of his time staked out in front of it meowing gently at her. or maybe he's meowing at me to open the door.  we've been doing feedings between a baby gate and they do...okay with these. the new cat hisses once and then seems to ignore resident cat for a half hour afterwards. resident cat has no problems stress eating right in front of her room but doesn't stop meowing and clearly wants in.  resident cat also urinated outside of his litter box yesterday for the first time ever. he's been pawing at the floor all over the house non-stop (which is something he usually does if he doesn't like the smell there or if he's going to use the bathroom).  what should we do? how do we calm down resident cat? i have feliway everywhere. should i let the door be open with the gate indefinitely? seeing her seems to calm him down somewhat and stop the meowing slightly.  alternately, i can gate him in downstairs and try to stop the obsession. but we've tried this and it just starts up again the moment he's free.  what's my next move? just wait it out?  
 sending you-all good vibes   
 thanks you guys. i guess it's time to dive in! we will try joint play tonight and i'll report back with how it goes. both of these cats are street cats and we don't really know if they get along well with others so it's going to be...interesting.  
 have you done site swapping? if boy has time in her safe space alone it will intermingle his scent with hers. that will put his scent in a place where she gets good things.   this was scary but good start. she said "stay away from me you scary beast." and he said "ok" and left her alone.  
 day 13: we did a joint play session today in a neutral bedroom. it started off okay but ended poorly.   resident cat stayed on the floor and ate both cat's food. new cat stayed on the bed and batted at a toy. then resident cat tried to go onto the bed and new cat hissed and growled, so resident cat retreated under the bed. this repeated itself three times.  then randomly, new cat went under the bed herself with resident cat and they both stared at each other for a while.  then...sigh...we had a small fight. new cat ran into the bathroom and hid behind the toilet. resident cat followed and sat on the opposite side of the toilet. new cat hissed and growled, but they ended up just sniffing each other for a few minutes in the hole behind the toilet. i allowed this since they seemed pretty peaceful.  then out of nowhere, new cat's ears went back, she gave a mighty hiss, and struck resident cat in the face. resident cat ran away squealing. we corralled new cat using cardboard into her room.  resident cat does not seem to be damaged, but i'm horrified that he was struck. what do we do now? do we keep doing these or do we take a step back?  i'm beginning to wonder whether new cat is suited to a two-cat household. we have her on temporary loan from her fosters to see if they get along.  
 swatting, hissing, growling, are all normal cat communication. even the friendliest of cats who love each other and lived together for years may do these things to tell the other to leave them alone. this is all your cats are doing. females can be territorial and bitchy. everything sounds like it is going fine, as in nothing alarming is happening. just let them be under supervision. i like to use a laser pointer as a distraction to separate them if needed so that i don't get in the middle and end up bitten in the process.  
 yesterday as was suggested, we opened new cat's door and let her and relaxed cat basically hang out all day. we continued gate feedings and gave them some mutual activities (like watching a hexbug run around) but mostly let them hang out together.  new cat is still clearly very fearful. mostly she hid under beds. resident cat would go under the bed on the opposite side and they would stare at each other for hours. but the moment resident cat would get too close, new cat would hiss, growl or swat, and resident cat would back off. there have not been any major incidents or blood drawn after 12+ hours of them sharing the space.  resident cat seems less frustrated now that he can hang out with new cat, but new cat definitely seems more stressed out. we lost her for a four hour period as she hid somewhere nobody could find her.  what is the best way to increase new cat's comfort? should we continue to separate the cats to give her time to relax? should we allow her to explore the house on her own and put resident cat away? or is just throwing them together like this the best way to get them used to each other?   i'm no longer concerned about some massive incident between them but i don't want to over-stress new cat either. thank you in advance for your wonderful, thoughtful suggestions - you guys are the best!!!  
 hi! for my two cents, i think separating them, and allowing the new kitty time to roam is a good approach. she needs to be able to de-stress, it will be healthier in the long run.  continue with what you're doing mutually when you have them together, but also playing with just her could help her to feel stronger emotionally, or if she's not in to that, just sitting on the floor with her, just reading, --aloud or not, working on your computer etc.  try some of @mamanyt1953 chamomile tea just below, and if you aren't already, some low volume classical harp music could help her too   "...i'm going to suggest trying 1-3 teaspoonfuls of chilled chamomile tea, up to 3 times a day. administer via syringe, placing the tip between the cheek and gum, and injecting slowly, allowing time to swallow. use the commercial tea bags from the coffee/tea aisle of your local grocery store to insure that you are getting german chamomile, which is safe for cats. english, which often grows in gardens, is not. i like the chamomile because it is gently calming without being actually sedating. no wobbly, drunk kitties staggering around."  
 this is what should be happening. this is excellent communication between them.   
 we're on day 18 now and things have regressed if anything. again, we have zero problems getting them to eat on other side of a gate without incident. it's the second that they stop eating that both cats go apeshit: new cat with hissing and attempted swipes through the gate or under the door, resident cat with yowling and howling. both cats will spend all day and night howling at each other if we let them so we've had to maintain full physical separation except for gate feeds.  i have done 2x site swaps/day, 2x scent swaps/day and 4x gate feeds a day and things only seem to be getting worse between the two. there has been zero progress. we have feliway everywhere.  new cat is nothing but lovely and confident with only people around and turns into a terrified aggressive mess the second resident cat appears.   i am exhausted and i just don't know what else to do.  
 i am so sorry. occasionally, this happens, and yes, some cats need to be "only children." but don't be disheartened by it over all. you have come on a journey, and learned so very much, and there may be another cat in your future who will fit the bill perfectly, and who will benefit from all you have learned this time around.  hugs, darlin. although i've seen very successful introductions take months, you are kind of under the gun here with the time limit. just...make the best decision you can for all of you. i know you have gotten attached to her, and how hard this is for you.  
 i think you are doing the right thing returning the cat. we faced a similar situation some time ago, when we brought home a female cat to be friends with swanie. swanie was a huge boy, not just overweight, but big, 24 lbs, big paws, large. she was tiny, 8 lbs. before the end of our experiment, swanie was hiding in the closet refusing to come out. she was swatting him at every opportunity (including when he was heading to the litter box), and he was scared to death of her. a lot of people thought we were wrong to return her, but she got a home with someone as an only cat (who thought she was the "perfect cat," whereas i was beginning to resent her), and we got cricket, who is a little sweetie and she and swanie became good friends.   
 hello and welcome to tcs. beautiful cat.   i agree with @kieka and @archycat that butters may be hungry since he is still growing. however, having come from a hoarder situation, it's also possible him being so young that he didn't always get enough food, and maybe even had to fight other cats for food. that, therefore, could have caused a form of "stray cat food obsession".   my ruby was a stray before she ended up at the shelter where i adopted her, and when i first brought her home, she was looking for food all the time. it took 6 or 7 months, i think, before one day i noticed she'd left food in her dish to eat later. prior to that she licked her dish clean in one sitting. so it's possible that butters will need longer than 2 months to learn that there'll always be more food.  does butters ever eat so fast, or so much, that he vomits? that's something that could happen if you left a large dish of food out for him all the time. if someone isn't home all day to ensure his dish is always being refilled, there are timed feeding dishes that might work.  how do butters and littles get along when food isn't involved?  
 if he does eat so fast, or so much, that he vomits, you can help by putting a ping-pong ball in his food dish. eating around the ball slows down the eating.  
 hello,  background: i am a new cat owner. i have an 8 month old female kitten who has been cared for by my 4 year old female boxer since she was 7/8 weeks old. the family that had this kitten (kitten's name is tabby) said that she did not get along with their older cat and they couldn't keep her. they were going to give her to the spca but i took her instead. i immediately took her to the vet and her checked and vaccinated.  she was a good kitten. she has never been shy. the first day i brought her home i expected the usual shy cat thing. but this kitten, who was the size of a ball of yarn, just hopped out of her basket and made herself right at home. she was never afraid of my dog either. she actually tried to nurse off her. as the kitten has gotten older she has began playing with my dog (to give you some context, my dog is a couch potato and a cuddle bug... she is a gentle giant).  behavior: as the kitten has grown, so has her attitude. she is just out of control. i know she is a kitten, and i know that being crazy is like a normal kitten thing, but this is getting out of hand. aside from the normal clawing and climbing, she likes to chew on cords (not safe!), throw things off shelves, attack curtains, and knock over garbage cans (she has a strange obsession with q-tips).  to discourage her behavior, a couple different friends told us to try: using a squirt gun... didn't work because this weirdo loves water booping her on the nose.... she just squints at me then goes and does it again (whatever got her into trouble that is) "yelling at her"... i don't really yell, but i lower the pitch of my voice like i did when i trained my dog. doesn't work either.  so she is unresponsive to all forms of discipline we have tried. she ignores us, and just does what she wants. we are trying to train her to stay off the tables and counters too but nothing seems to work.  here is the latest issue. the other day, she pooped on our kitchen table. for no reason.  like this kitten is seriously out of control.  environment: nothing in her environment has changed since coming home with me. we live quietly, it's just my mother, my dog, and myself. we keep the same exact daily routine. the cat's food and litter are the same brand. the litter is changed 2x/week. she gets attention and she plays with the dog (99% of the time she initiates play time with the dog, and she is much more rough with my dog than my dog is with her).  tabby is not fixed, idk if that makes a difference. i just graduated college and have been saving up for the procedure.  your help? i just need some help. my mother is very unhappy with this new behavior. she didn't want to get a cat in the first place, i only convinced her to get one because my dog is a very social breed and she has no playmate. my mother is not a very patient person and she wants to give the kitten away. first of all, it would be very upsetting because i already love this little demon, and secondly, she and my dog have bonded so well i am afraid of what it might do to my dog.  i am looking for any advice or solutions. i really appreciate any help.  
 have her spayed (!!) and maybe think about adopting a second kitten close to her age, that can keep up with her. most of these kinds of misbehavior come from boredom.  or maybe try to increase your daily play time. as i said, fighting boredom is the key.  
 the spca and other organizations often have low-cost spay/neuter clinics and sometimes offer fee waivers or free spay/neuter days. where are you located? we can help you find an affordable location to get the procedure done.  as others have said, the behaviors you've described are normal for kittens of her age, but she may calm down after getting spayed. she will certainly calm down as she ages. cord protectors are a good idea! i've put them on most of the cords in my home.  when it comes to pooping on the table, that's not as normal. what kind of litter are you using? and when you say you clean it twice a week, does that mean scooping twice a week, or changing out the entire box? (for reference, i use unscented clumping litter, and i scoop once a day and change out the entire box every 3-4 weeks.) even if nothing about your routine has changed recently, your kitten might be getting pickier about the cleanliness of the litter box.  when correcting her behavior, try hissing, like another cat would. i've found it to be more effective than "yelling." you can also simply distract her, but that's sometimes not enough.  
 one of my cats is about 5 to 6 months old and lately hes been getting erections like crazy lately like a teenage boy and soaks himself i keep trying to wake him up and do things to try to discourage it   i first noticed it when 1 of my 8 week old kittens i have started to suck him like he was his mother the boy would lay back and embrace it i stoped it from happening as i saw he was getting a bit to excited by this lol i thought cats didnt receive pleasure like humans and only are sexual for reproducing only   anyways is this normal for a cat at his young age?  
 well, he is a teenager after all  i don't think there is much you can do to make him stop doing that since it's quite involuntary behavior (and normal too).  have you considered having him neutered? he's obviously going into puberty, so he'll be starting with the spraying soon too.   
 i was to ld last time i got a cat fixed that they have to be 6 months old hes close to it but iv never had a cat do this and iv probably had around 40 cats in my lifetime find it a bit odd his brother doesnt do it   
 yes he primarily eats dry   
 hi. i personally don't have any tips - no experience with your situation. but, it might mean starting over again at some level and re-introducing woody, and perhaps buster as well, to lucy and roxie. you didn't mention the other two cats, so i have no idea which of the above named 'twosomes' get along with the other two that weren't mentioned.   i hate to see posts on here that don't at least get some sort of acknowledgement shortly after the initial post - just so they feel as if somebody is paying attention - that is essentially why i wanted to at least say "hi".   i hope one of the staff or others in this site will come along soon and share articles that discuss both angles - getting lucy to be more confident and making woody understand that he needs to leave her alone.  
 it took over year fro my blended family to finally get along. my 'fraidy' cat slept on top the fridge for a year, i even had to put her a bed up there. she finally got bullied one too many times and took the bully.it was smooth sailing since then! i really think your little one will eventually stand up to the bully, don't force her, she needs to build up her confidence. make sure she has her safe place where ever that is and try to feed them all together to give off good vibes. even if it means shoving hers under the settee and feeding the rest near by. now it is at the point i just have to yell the bully's name and he slinks off. he still tries 4 years later!  
 you may have already read these, but in case you haven't here's some tcs articles that might have some helpful tips for you.  how to get a cat to come out of hiding? 10 must-know tips for happy living with a shy cat 16 top cat experts share tips for dealing with timid cats 14 cat experts reveal: how to get a cat to like me playing with your cat: 10 things you need to know  
 i'm certainly not an expert, but i have two 5.5-month-old kittens (littermates) who are closely bonded -- and the girl, who is smaller, sometimes hisses at her brother during play when she needs to let him know he's being too rough. when they get very worked up, they sometimes flatten their ears too. but they aren't at all afraid of one another; they sleep together and on top of each other, groom each other, constantly seek one another out, eat side by side, etc. based on your description and my own experience, your kitties seem to get along just fine.  
  i wouldn't worry too much about the tail. my nearly 11 month old, angus, pants like a dog and his tail goes puffy when he's excited. the tail also puffs out when he's startled, but if he's really playing hard with me or the new 3 month old kitten, leo, his tail puffs out (he looks like a raccoon from behind). yet he will also curl up next to leo and groom him or sleep on the cat tree or in bed with me right next to him. when leo has come back from a vet visit, they've touched noses briefly. yet they'll also tear around the apartment and wrestle, occasionally with some hissing. i think it was someone here who said that it's rare for cats to be enemies and still engage in play behaviors with each other.  
 lead-based house paints were banned in 1978, if that's what you were worrying about. you should be free from that problem, since your house is considerably newer. can't say about anything else in the paint, though.  
 i think i will try the bitter apple. i noticed him sniffing at the base of my wood coffee table, but no chews so far. plastic guards sound good, but not if he starts to chew other things. i don't know what pica is, but i will look it up.   
 i'd try the deter stuff (bitter apple, etc.) and if he stops, great, if he takes to chewing something else, i'd definitely see a vet that's cat friendly, cat savvy and realizes that if it's pica, it needs to be dealt with medically as well as behaviorally and not written off as "cat doing a weird thing."  if he continues to do this despite deter, and you see a vet, don't accept "it's just something cats do" as an answer! also, agreed with the tooth thing. some cats develop something called stomatitis, and some of those cats (ours) chewed on weird objects because his teeth (according to the vet) "itched". a good vet should be able to tell with a quick glance if stomatitis is a possibility during a routine exam. hopefully he's just being a nutty little thing and will stop and it's not health related at all!  
 hi everyone  my friend went out for holidays and i am staying at his place for a week to take care of his cat. today, when i was going to sleep i found out that the cat had pooped on my friend's bed and was very angry and protective. i understand it wants to mark its territory over me, who i am a stranger to him, but how can i deal with it for the time i'm here? i never had a cat and would not want to have to deal with an angry and perhaps aggressive one for the whole week. today i'm sleeping in another bedroom but what should i do tomorrow? should i reclaim the bedroom somehow? should i bribe the cat with food? just act as if nothing happened?  thanks for your help!  
 thanks to both of you for the answer! he must be really scared then, as i had not even entered the bedroom until that moment. i will follow your advice: just leave him space and sleep in another bedroom. hopefully he gets to like me during this week!  
 hello guys, like a lot of you i am also new in here. today i came at this forum page because my 4 yrs old cat have been acting weird recently. until couple of months ago she was fine but i am not so sure anymore. long stay short i adopted my cat 4 years ago together with my ex wife. i am new in this country so i am struggling a little bit . my ex wife decided to get a divorce from me and she never looked back or asked me how my cat is doing. she was the one that decided to adopt our cat but now i am the one taking care of her/ btw is a female cat. lately i have seen her sitting on her 4 paws on a certain spot and starting meowing. and as soon as i come home she comes and runs to see me. i am living by myself and she is the only person i have in here. i am getting a little worried as my divorce might have affected her the most. she was the quiet one and never even meowed. now she is meowing and staying with me all the time. i even decided to change my job and spend more time with her. any advice would be appreciated. thank you so much for bearing with me and reading my long post.  
 also, for your kitty while you are gone, you could try food puzzles and other toys for self-entertainment;  food puzzles for cats  20 best interactive cat toys: the ultimate list (2018) | heavy.com  home the ripple rug  
 she was working too. sometimes i think that she might miss her but also the vet couldn't figure it out. i will try and get her a companion. thank you for your advice  
 we have had our rescue orange fixed tabby male since he was 7 yo. he is 12 now and gets up on the kitchen counter tops multiple times a day looking for food. he never did this in the previous 5 years we have had him. he is a indoor/outdoor cat, he is even eating donuts though ziplock bags now? i have dewormed him thinking he might have worms and be over hungry but no change?  
 it sounds like poor little kiara went through a lot before she found her way to you.   have you had her for a vet checkup yet?  also are you doing a "proper" cat introduction?  some of the peeing outside the litter box could be stress/territorial. did you use an enzyme cleaner to wash the bedding?   there's a lot going on with kiara, and your other cats, so i'm going to post links to several different tcs articles which, hopefully, will have some tips for you. good luck. i hope it all works out.  how to successfully introduce cats: the ultimate guide introducing cats to cats how to fix an unsuccessful cat introduction  how to solve litterbox problems in cats: the ultimate guide litterbox problems? here's why you should call your vet inappropriate peeing, spraying, toy obsession and leg and hand nipping spraying: when your cat uses urine to mark territory  how to remove cat urine how to remove cat urine odor from your home how to get cat pee smell out of clothes and linens  is your cat stressed out? you, your cat and stress potential stressors in cats - the ultimate checklist six surefire strategies to reduce stress in cats  
 i don't think you especially want to stop during the car ride, since stressed cats can be a problem getting back into carriers. that said, some cats do pee or poop in carriers when stressed, and if that happens, not much choice if your just starting the long drive, i'd pull over and keep the car closed while you deal with it. prep for having a baby, lol.  your future in laws don't have pets do they?  
 it sounds like you thought everything through very thoroughly. they should be fine, and even though ideally it’s better not to have them leave familiar territory, having trustworthy people there all the time is really helpful. enjoy your honeymoon (congrats!) it sounds like your kitties are well cared for.  
 caught in the act, lol. great picture, cat looks well contented with herself...   
 i have one that likes to steal shiny things. usually, they are from around the bathroom sink: tweezers, my toothbrush, my razor, scissors, medicine bottle caps. i have to keep them locked up since so many of them are sharp. he takes things from the nightstand, too: thumb drives, pencils and pens, my glasses, etc. those don't present as great a potential health hazard, so i accept looking for them as part of cat stewardship.  
 hi, i am pretty new here, i stopped in to find out if anyone has any knowledge about russian blues and what to do with new negative behaviours? i notice that my cat gucci is totally different than any other cat i have owned or known. once he thinks a new behaviour is permitted,which takes only one "wrong" action (normally from a visitor), it takes a long and painfully aggravating time to get him to stop. now he has decided he is going to attack and bite and scratch any hand that comes toward him to pt his head or even body. he seems to think it is a fun game, and he is on the attack like with his laser or toy! i have tried so much to stop this behaviour, and he just won't go back to being my sweet baby! i have a 2 year old granddaughter who will be coming to visit me soon here i hope, and i had him trained just fine to be around her, she could have crawled all over him, until one person played rough with him on the mouth and face one time, i finally walked in and saw it happening and said stop please now, but it was too late, now he won't stop no matter who or what..really depressed in ottawa...guccismama..  
 so newman arrived friday day and today is tuesday. louie has gone from hissing, swatting and growling to playing and grooming. yeah!  
 how very special! sounds like you have two very lovely cats.  
 am a bit bummed right now. i have a very sweet amiable cat, a ragdoll maine coon cross. every once in a while-and it could be several months between incidents- she’ll get bitey out of the blue. it’s not a frequent thing.  tonight, she was sitting on me- she came to me- and was purring and cuddley. before that, she’d been rolling on her back giving me cute looks. out of the blue, she growled and bit me hard. if she didn’t want to be petted anymore, she could have jumped off. i wasn’t restraining her in any way. she was purring before this.   so i said no and grabbed her by the scruff of her neck and puked her head away. and i put her on the floor. but she was in a towering kitty rage and started grabbing my arm and got me good. even though she was on the floor. two bloody scratches.   i tossed a light weight object at her and scolded her. i also decided to try to communicate like a cat and i hissed at her.   thing with her, is when she dies this, when i move away, she’s right as rain in about a minute or less. so i think she was surprised by the hissing.   i realize cats don’t think like humans but i’m pretty annoyed. pets are supposed to know they aren’t supposed to hurt you. that’s supposed to be a criterion. i used to have a large dog who never ever ever did anything like that. if he’d gotten in a mood like that, i could have been killed.  i’m pretty bummed. i can’t really talk about this with my husband because he’s an animal whisperer and he doesn’t freaking get it. he just goes didi, didi, and he says it brings her back to herself. oh no. not when i do it.  
 typo...pulled not puked.  
 i've been training reese to do fun little tricks, as well as treating her for using her scratching post these past few days. she's good at the tricks she does. lie down, shake paws, and speak on command so far. i've always just popped a treat into her mouth when she does what i want. i'm not sure it would have the same effect if i didn't outright 'hand' it to her?   
 cats are also nearsighted. i've noticed this more with mizu than with raja, if things are very close to her, she smells them rather than sees them. your kitty may just be having a hard time distinguishing where the treat ends and your fingers begin. feline vision: how cats see the world  
 my boy gets overexcited for his treats too. i just hold my hand flat and tilt it toward him, then immediately take the hand away. it helps that he likes to retreat a little to protect his treat from his sister (who is incredibly gentle when she takes her treats).  
 i’ll just say very briefly that i made this account just so that’s i could ask for help and get some more personal advice. so forgive me if i do something wrong here.   so the place next to where my dad works “owns” 2 cats. they’re both rag dolls, very loving and love attention. my dad was on the look out for both cats and finally found one of them and brought it home in march. we gave it love and a nice place to call home. his name is charlie (still unsure what gender he is). he has been with us for 6 months now and is loving and playful and sometimes hyper. but that’s besides the point. at noon today my dad found the other cat and texted me about it. the cat was quite skinny and almost malnourished compared to the last time my dad had seen him so this was another factor as to why we wanted to adopt this cat as our as well. for some reason, both my dad and i were stupid enough to think that they would recognize each other and have a nice happy reunion but we were absolutely wrong. they had a stand off for about 30 seconds and when my dad went to pick up the new comer, our resident cat lunged at him. he even got up on the counter and jumped at my dad who was holding the new cat. i picked our resident cat up, put him in my room and no proceeded to clean out the scratches that covered my arm. now we don’t know what to do and are thinking of returning the newcomer cat to where we found him. if the new cat wasn’t in such bad condition (very dirty, never groomed or brushed, quite skinny) i would agree to return him. but i don’t want to return him to a place where he won’t be given any love or proper care. especially with school starting in just 4 days, there will be no one at home to help supervise if or when they do get accustomed to each other. sos!!!  
 here some articles to get you started  how to successfully introduce cats: the ultimate guide introducing cats to cats how to fix an unsuccessful cat introduction  
 i agree with @jem they are curious by nature.  and i think the more they know we don't want them to go somewhere the more tempting the act becomes for them. right now my cat has an affinity for going into the bathroom vanity. it's at his level and he doesn't have to jump.  cats love vertical spaces so i thought this article might be helpful for making your apartment appear bigger to your cat: how to make your home bigger (at least for your cats)  
 the rope ladder is an excellent idea. you can use one of those relatively think throw rugs that's absolutely going to send someone flying. just anchor it with a large book, rock, potted plant, or all three if needed to out-weigh kitty.  it's possible she heard something behind the washer/dryer and went looking for it. it could be a creature in the wall, or in the neighbor's apartment (if there is one), or a squirrel climbing the outside of the wall.  
 my new cat broke out of the bathroom. now the new cat hunts the resident cat. the resident cat is terrified. the new cat is affectionate towards me, she can fit through the pet gate without difficulty. she sleeps with me. so, now i am locking up my resident cat in the bathroom. what is the next step for the new cat and resident cat?  
 i think a cat wheel is a good idea, if you have the space for one. i don’t think there’s much in the way of training needed; active cats tend to gravitate toward them. you might also enjoy taking red for walks on a leash and harness. there’s a tcs article about that here: harness and leash training for cats  here’s some more articles about playtime and entertaining kitties:   playing with your cat: 10 things you need to know  beating boredom - what indoor cat owners need to know  
 i bought a one fast wheel! great idea. i think what i'll do is rig a toy on a pole slightly above it so he has to run fast to get the toy.  
 i would suggest a toy rotation at least every week (putting his toys where he can't get them and adding new toys), taking him for daily outside time an hour every day, a bird watching window and as many cat shelves/cat trees as you can install/buy. you need to exhaust him mentally & physically. have you tried puzzle feeders? cat tunnels? don't forget chew toys.  my hyper punk needs to 'hunt' birds from the backyard every day if we want peace in the house. 20-40 sparrows & finches hopping/flying around in our backyard plus 10-20 of those fat slow moving pigeons keeps him happy.... plus hummingbirds.   he is at his hyperest phase right now. hopefully when he reaches 1 year he will slow down a bit. i wouldn't expect his hyperness to slow down until he is ?10? i'm guessing. savannah cats are very active breeds.  
 can you tell us more about yourself? hard to say what sort of cat is right for you when we have no info..  have you ever had cats? have you ever raised a kitten? what is your day to day lifestyle like? what's your age range? got a job outside the home? got kids? how big is your home? will the cat go outside? what about a kitten appeals to you?   i'll just go ahead and suggest going to a shelter and adopting a cat who needs a home. those are always a good "breed", imo.   
 i live in an apartment, i am home most of the day. i want a cat that has kinda long, soft hair but is on the easier side of grooming. i want a cat that is extremely affectionate and loving, loves hugging, cuddles, likes to follow me around. he needs to be an apartment breed. extremely amenable. no cats ever owned. no cats raised but i have a decent amount of knowledge. in my 20s. no kids  
 ok awesome! i'm definitely going to suggest going to a shelter and adopting a homeless kitty.    kittens are adorable. they're zany and silly and fun. but if you want a certain personality ("extremely affectionate and loving, loves hugging, cuddles, likes to follow me around") you are not guaranteed to get those traits when you pick out a kitten. in fact, it's a long shot!   kittens haven't fully formed their personality yet. you might pick the sweetest, calmest kitten in the litter, and it might show those traits, and then when you have it a while, the cat is a hyped up ball of crazy and shreds your curtains and keeps you up all night wanting to play. shoot, it might start doing that the night you get it home. because that's what kittens do!   an adult cat (even just a couple years old) has had the time to establish who it is. so when you go to a shelter, you tell them the traits you describe above, and they will be able to suggest some cats who fit that mold. then you can pick a cat that suits you! meet them and get to know them. often a shelter cat will simply pick *you*, and you'll know it's meant to be.  
 i know that kittens are active and playful but if you pick a calm breed it will calm down when it gets older that is my opinion.   but i don't mind it being playful and energetic as a kitten that is actually cute.  i just like kittens more. like some people like chocolate and others not, some people like animals and others not. i don't know why but we are all different.  besides my feelings, emotions and instincts to have a specific cat breed idk how that works but it exists to me. logically and rationally i can name a few things:  excluding kittens. cats in shelters are older and have a shorter life-expectancy. so you enjoy him not as many years cats in shelters could, in my opinion i could be wrong, be there because of behavioral issues or illnesses. this is something that i don't want in a new cat. i naturally want it to have a good health that's why i want a cat from a breeder that has an ancestory tree and tests their cats for illnesses before breeding. if after all these precautionary steps there still comes an illness. then i at least have tried the best to my ability so i can accept it then. the kind of food, care and exercise you give your cat also is a factor that determines it health. since i don't know how it was raised and fed i don't want to take that risk. i want a kitten because i want to raise it as my baby and develop a strong bond. i don't want a cat that is older because it could not maybe not form a strong bond with me or have emotional damage. also kittens are so cute!  and i want a specific breed so i know what i get. i think that like with dogs cats are bred for specific temperaments and jobs and purposes. persians are calm and affectionate. bengals are energetic and playful.  
 sorry i don't want to offend anybody if i did. i could be wrong but this is my opinion.  do you guys think a ragdoll would be a good fit for me?  
 thanks!   
 thanks!  if there is a ragdoll cat that needs a home i really might consider it   
 can you please point out which points are false and present the scientific evidence for it. otherwise you are not in a position to say that, especially since i said it is my opinion based on rational and logical opinion.   
 in the end we both love cats.  so let's not fight and let people decide which path they want to pick.  
 thanks, the people are so nice here. here in the netherlands a purebred ragdoll kitten that comes from a reputable breeder that is part of a catbreed organization. costs between 600-850 euros even up to a 1000 euros max. which i think is cheap compared to other pets like parrots and dogs. it is the feeling you get when you buy a new iphone, instead of a secondhand one that appeals to me, the lifestages i get to witness and seeing him grow up. i owned a parrot so i am prepared for an energetic kitten  a parrot is truly needy and energetic and i won't buy a parrot anymore.  a ragdoll cat is quiet, calm, affectionate, won't bite lol. sure they will play but they will not be flying all over the place, poop and destroy your property that's why i love cats.  i looked at a rescue website and the longhaired breeds get either so easily adopted or are just not abandoned. i won't stand a chance picking one from there  unlike the usa there is not so much an issue of feral pets and overpopulated shelters.  i think, i might be false. i occassionally see on kittentekoop.nl breeders that look for a home for a kitten that somebody purchased but returned for whatever reason, i want to do that if the possibility arises. that way i saved a cat and i got a pedigree ragdoll cat. we all happy   
  a quick search on ragdoll on this site will show you that just because that is the breed description does not mean that it will be accurate in all cases. search results for query: ragdoll | thecatsite perhaps you were joking?   
    rajanmizu said: ↑   a quick search on ragdoll on this site will show you that just because that is the breed description does not mean that it will be accurate in all cases. search results for query: ragdoll | thecatsite perhaps you were joking?click to expand...  i think it is good to know what you want in a cat. raja is right that not all cats will perfectly reflect the best qualities of their breed. when you are looking for your kitten and breeder, make sure that you mention what you said here to the breeder - you want a kitten that is calm, easygoing, and sociable with good bathroom habits. a good breeder will help you select the right kitten and give you information on how to socialize them properly. if you aren't confident in your ability to judge a cat's personality or a breeder's reputation you can consult with a cat vet. they should be able to guide you.  good luck!   
 no worries. i am neither offended nor fighting. (side note: freedom of speech does not mean one can say whatever and whenever without consequence, at least not in the us. my background is in literature and i have taught holocaust literature. i am also active in anti-censorship, along with many other things, and am pretty well versed in the constitution. my husband's background is in history, so whatever i personally do not know about a historical event, i can turn to him. telling someone that their opinion is wrong is not censorship and does not violate any aspect of the freedom of speech. it certainly is not reflective of the limitations on language put in place by the nazi regime.)  look at any shelter list of available cats, especially during kitten season. there is such a spike during kitten season that shelters have no room because they cannot get the cats adopted fast enough. fosters often have to take on multiple cats at a time just to house them. people drop off mommas with newborns, pregnant queens, mommas alone, and babies alone left and right.     blackbeard said: ↑  kittens get adopted faster than older cats, which is why you may not think kittens are available at shelters, especially during kitten season.   - i did not say this.click to expand...  you stated:    blackbeard said: ↑  excluding kittens. cats in shelters are older and have a shorter life-expectancy. so you enjoy him not as many yearsclick to expand...  the punctuation suggests that you mean shelters exclude kittens and that shelter cats are older. cats in shelters range from newborns to elderly in age.   look at any shelter list of available cats, especially during kitten season. there is such a spike during kitten season that shelters have no room because they cannot get the cats adopted fast enough that fosters often have to take on multiple cats at a time just to house them. people drop off mommas with newborns, pregnant queens, mommas alone, and babies alone.   shelters have more adult cats on hand because 1) kittens get adopted faster than adult cats, 2) the kittens that do not get adopted become adults, and 3)some people dump cats once they are no longer kittens. i know this as a cat foster who works with a local shelter and because statistics show that it is true. 80-82 percent of shelter kittens get adopted before 18 months of age, while only 60% of adult cats are adopted. the leftover cats from the 80-82% join the ranks or the 40% of adult cats that do not get adopted.   what kinds of pets get adopted?  kittens in crisis: what you can do to help overcrowded shelters and rescues  it's kitten season! here's how to help! | litter-robot blog  the ailments most common to shelter cats tend to be easily taken care of with proper treatment. the reason they have higher rates of these minor diseases is because the number of cats in the shelter. a kitten obtained from a disreputable breeder is just as likely to have these same illnesses. the difference is that a disreputable breeder will not give a kitten adequate care and shelter cats often have more room to move around than the poor things in a kitten mill.   the shelter i work with gives free healthcare to adopted kittens and cats for the first month after the adoption just to ensure that their cats are healthy. like breeders, some shelters are better than others.   identifying common ailments in cats adopted from animal shelters and rescue groups  do kitten mills exist? yes! here's how we can help stop them   as stated, some shelters are better than others, which will reduce the possibility of behavioral issues. kitten mills--which often can have the look of a reputable breeder--are more likely to produce cats with behavior issues. behavioral issues can be related to health, genetics, and environment. a good shelter or breeder will, at the very least, ensure the health and environment of their cats and kittens.   characteristics of cats raised at kitten mills  again, i am not attacking your choice to go through a breeder. if you want genetic testing, that is your choice.   feline genetics: clinical applications and genetic testing    blackbeard said: ↑  i want a kitten because i want to raise it as my baby and develop a strong bond. i don't want a cat that is older because it could not maybe not form a strong bond with me or have emotional damage.click to expand...  bonds can be formed at any age. like humans and other animals, socialization is the key. cats and kittens are individuals who will all bond differently. there is no good research about cat and human bonds, but, as long as there has been some level of socialization, any cat, regardless of age, can form bonds. typically, cats over the age of four months will choose someone  shelters have more adult cats on hand because 1) kittens get adopted faster than adult cats, 2) the kittens that do not get adopted become adults, and 3)some people dump cats once they are no longer kittens. i know this as a cat foster who works with a local shelter and because statistics show that it is true. 80-82 percent of shelter kittens get adopted before 18 months of age, while only 60% of adult cats are adopted. the leftover cats from the 80-82% join the ranks or the 40% of adult cats that do not get adopted.  what kinds of pets get adopted?  kittens in crisis: what you can do to help overcrowded shelters and rescues  it's kitten season! here's how to help! | litter-robot blog  the ailments most common to shelter cats tend to be easily taken care of with proper treatment. the reason they have higher rates of these minor diseases is because the number of cats in the shelter. a kitten obtained from a disreputable breeder is just as likely to have these same illnesses. the difference is that a disreputable breeder will not give a kitten adequate care and shelter cats often have more room to move around than the poor things in a kitten mill.  the shelter i work with gives free healthcare to adopted kittens and cats for the first month after the adoption just to ensure that their cats are healthy. like breeders, some shelters are better than others.  identifying common ailments in cats adopted from animal shelters and rescue groups  do kitten mills exist? yes! here's how we can help stop them  this may be useful to you: recommended ragdoll breeders | best ragdoll cat breeders  as stated, some shelters are better than others, which will reduce the possibility of behavioral issues. kitten mills--which often can have the look of a reputable breeder--are more likely to produce cats with behavior issues. behavioral issues can be related to health, genetics, and environment. a good shelter or breeder will, at the very least, ensure the health and environment of their cats and kittens.  characteristics of cats raised at kitten mills  again, i am not attacking your choice to go through a breeder. if you want genetic testing, that is your choice. great! that means you are researching your breeders.   bonds can be formed at any age. like humans and other animals, socialization is the key. cats and kittens are individuals who will all bond differently. there is no good research about cat and human bonds, but, as long as there has been some level of socialization, any cat, regardless of age, can form bonds. typically, cats over the age of four months will choose someone    blackbeard said: ↑  i am in love with the adult version of a ragdoll. i want it to grow up and be an adult  i agree do not buy them and expect them to be kittens their whole life.click to expand...  that is great, too! my son's friend always says he is sad that he cannot have a pet in his apartment. he visits our house, especially when we have kitten fosters. he has stated many times that it works out better for him because he just likes kittens more than adult cats. (except for our 13-year-old simon. i think he would take simon if he could.) a lot of the older cats at our shelter were once someone's kitten who grew up.     blackbeard said: ↑  not everybody has the time and desire to research every single thing in life. neither do you.click to expand...  some people choose to research a lot. i am one of those people. perhaps it is my background in academics, but i do, and i have plenty of time. did i research my cats before i took them in? nope. my current cats, by and large, are all strays that have been abandoned. (our baby silas was likely the result of a bad breeder. he and at least one of his siblings had been starved nearly to death, burned, and then dumped. he was barely holding on when we got him.)   i did, however, researched the local shelter and the vets near us. the shelter is fantastic, which is why i foster for them and donate items and money to them. the vet we selected is not exactly near us because none of the others suited my needs or wants.   if i were to be considering adopting a cat from anywhere or anyone, i would certainly research as much as i could before making my choice. if people would stop dumping their cats and actually spay/neuter them, i might one day be in the possition of actually planning on getting a cat and researching the breed and seller.   to be clear, i am not attacking your choice to get a cat from a breeder or your choice to get a specific breed. as i stated, i have respect for reputable breeders. i do not have an issue with any cat getting adopted regardless of how. it saves the cat's life. bringing any cat into your home is a leap of faith and, hopefully, love.  obviously, i do not have an issue with people wanting to adopt kittens. i foster kittens so that people can adopt them. i want them adopted! hex, i have four that were kittens when i found them, three of which still needed milk replacement.   as i stated, i respect your choice to get a specific breed from a breeder. it is your prerogative, and i have absolutely no issue with it.  my issue stemmed from the suggestion that shelter cats are older and that kittens are excluded when i know from a lot of personal experience that this is not the case. it also stemmed for the suggestion that breeders have healthier cats and that older cats cannot form close bonds. it is not always the case.     blackbeard said: ↑  the best bonds in my opinion are formed from a young age. but it is harder and more difficult to form a strong bond with an abused cat. even impossible sometimesclick to expand...  while there is truth to your statement, abused animals, like abused people, can form exceptionally strong bonds with someone who shows them love and care. bowlby's attachment theory can easily be applied to certain types of animals, and considering the socio-cognitive relationship between animal and human is a complex thing. a kitten or adult, bonding is an individual experience.   
 i am not against adoption.  i think it is the best thing to do but sometimes people just want a purebred kitten. it is like a new iphone instead of a secondhand iphone that may be just as good. i know this analogy is bad sorry but i try to show why i want a kitten from a breeder.  it is that novelty of having something new that appeals  
 that is because cats are pure carnivores. the garbage that they put in dry food and even wet food is mostly plants which they cannot digest their digestive tract is very small compared to a cow and their teeth are not suited for that. that's why those cats have huge poops because lots of it leaves undigested.  feeding a quality raw meat diet is the most ideal but if that is too expensive look for a wet food because cats get their moisture mostly from their prey and have low drinking instincts   
 it is really ok if you want to buy a kitten. one day i'd love to buy a savannah.   about medical problems you really don't know what may arise. it really can't be predicted sometimes. but you sound responsible so i'm sure you will faithfully take care of your cat if that happens.  
 i will, i really advise people in the netherlands to get a pet insurance that is the most extensive it will cost anything from 20-30 euro for a ragdoll cat but alot will be covered. you owe this to your cat. you should take care of him and not make the costs of a vet hold you back to go. it is a small investment 20-30 euros. but necessary   
 do your research when looking at breeds and breeders. if there are dna tests that can be done for your chosen breed make sure your breeder does those for the parents of the kittens he/she breeds. this will not eliminate all potential health issues but may increase the chance that your kitten will be healthy. understand that a well bred kitten is likely to be more expensive upfront than a backyard breeder’s kittens. also make sure the kitten you choose is well socialized prior to deciding to purchase.  
 i love oliver!  your maine coon is really handsome! i am still stuck between choosing... a maine coon or a ragdoll. can a maine coon live in apartment?  
 personally i see things different. i watched cesar millan alot and i am in favor of his views. i think that the most balanced cats can be a kitten that has been raised correctly from birth.  a cat that has scars that are too deep simply won't become the same as a puppy or kitten that has been raised correctly from birth. but both need homes. i can also give arguments on why to buy a cat from a breeder it boils down to personal preference whatever makes you happy  
 a ragdoll breeder would know better but i think if you go for a cat that has the traits you are looking for, it will need a lot of interaction with you or a lot of toys/stimulation unless you adopt two to keep each other company. the more bonded to you the cat is, the needier it is going to be for your attention. we left ours for the weekend for the first time recently (with someone checking on them every day) and they were stuck to us like glue when we got back even though there are two of them.    
 hahah ahhh... so cute!   
 what will you do if your cat starts peeing everywhere but the litterbox? what will you do if the cat flips out and attacks someone? what if the cat wakes you up every morning at 3am?  book knowledge isn't necessarily the best way to understand what it's like to live with a cat. it is useful for some things though.  we want your cat owning experince to be a good one! having realistic expectations is part of that.  
 hey guys...   i am not planning on purchasing a kitten anymore because my religion does not allow it.  muslim (1569) narrated that abu’l-zubayr said: i asked jaabir about the price of dogs and cats. he said: the prophet (peace and blessings of allaah be upon him) told us not to do that (i.e., sell them).   abu dawood (3479) and al-tirmidhi (1279) narrated that jaabir ibn ‘abd-allaah (may allaah be pleased with him) said: the messenger of allaah (peace and blessings of allaah be upon him) forbade the price of dogs and cats. classed as saheeh by al-albaani in saheeh abi dawood.  
 shelters have fees which partly off set the expenses they acquired in the rescue and care of the animals. for example: medicine, food, utilizes. this is not the same are charging for the animals.  
 if you see the ruling of allah swt and ponder upon it you will realise it is the truth from god.  selling cats and dogs led to breed specific illnesses and wasting money. while mutts are much healthier due to surviving in the nature which assures only the best genes get passed on. this also deals with the overpopulation in shelters.  if people do not deal in cats then we won't have abandoned cats and we would all adopt much healthier cats. if you look at the persian cat due to human selling people bred for 'nicer' looks selecting cats with more flatter faces resulting in snoring and breathing issues just to name one thing  
 it depends on the cat. most older cats are fine with that. a single kitten, with no other pets in the home, would probably be lonely and pick up some naughty habits. many people feel that it's best to get 2 kittens if you don't have any other pets. that way they'll have each other to play with and nobody gets lonely.  
 also, if you look in our article section under "cat care," there are any number of good articles about enriching your cat's environment. i won't link them here, as there are a lot!  
 get some food near her hiding spot, she needs to feel safe. i myself would let the kitten out and see how she respond, if she is scared that is better than her attacking. but she may attack out of fear, so don't ever let them alone together for now. malta needs to get used to this newcomer, and taht will take a while. especially since the kitten will want to play. have something handy to distract the kitten if it goes up to poor malta. malta is female, so will discipline the kitten too, so be prepared for swats, hissing and growling. it is perfectly normal as long as there are no deep bites. if the kitten comes back for more, even after initially running off and hiding after a swat or hiss, everything is ok, if she stays hidden it is more then discipline. she may pin the kitten down too, just make sure she is not biting deep. give them treats within sight of each other to promote good feelings, this will happen, it all just takes time. months, not days or weeks. kittens are readily more accepted than adults, so malta will eventually calm down and even enjoy her new role, it just takes time! ps be aware taht malta may turn on you too if you startle her or pet her when she isn't aware of you coming up besides her, she is very focused right now. try to give her extra attention and reassurance.  
 hey! later on in the night she finally came out veeery slowly and cautiously. i was able to lure her back to her food and she ate most of it! malta didn't seem too scared after that, but she was still freaked out about the bathroom door. she also ate her most of her breakfast this morning as well! malta hasn't come out of the closet since i've come home, but this is definitely a good start? i was thinking about waiting until malta decides to come out of the closet and then i'll open the bathroom door and see what pepper does. is this a good idea?   
 hi! maybe, just go slowly  let us know what happens, we're rooting for you!  
   
 i forgot to mention that i did eventually find two ealing puncture wounds on stella's neck that might explain the blood puddle  
 hi @sharkybu and welcome to the cat site! sounds like you've had some good advice about keeping them separated during the day. we just introduced a third cat into our house and it can take a bit of time for them to get used to each other. it sometimes is a marathon, so take a deep breath and relax. if you are relaxed, stella and betsy will be too (beautiful kitties, by the way!). i understand it is hard to be relaxed if you think there may be a fight or chase, but usually it's more noise than them hurting each other.  i definitely second the idea to play as much as you can with the kitten and with betsy - and pick times for them to interact when they are tired, sleepy or sun-drunk.  as for how to deal with the crying of the lonely kitties, it's very hard for all of us! our brains are hardwired to respond to "babies" which is why a crying kitten is very stressful. try and ignore it if you can, knowing the cat is absolutely fine and just being needy. provide lots of toys, cat trees, and maybe get a puzzle feeder so the lonely cat can be distracted during visits. keep telling yourself that you are allowed to say no - the kitty is not in pain, just needy. give yourself permission to ignore it.  hopefully things are going well, feel free to ask questions and share as many pictures as you want! good luck!  
 have you been feeding them on opposite sides of the see thru door? that is another way to create good feelings with each other, as they smell and see each other while eating. you could also try and put feliway dffusers around the house. they emit "good feeling" pheromones that can help to keep them calm.  
 i tried feeding them on both sides of the door tonight. after a minute the cat jumped on the screen again trying to catch the kitten. but the both finished eating, so i count that a win.  
 the calico seems very interested in getting some,play going with the little one. her lying on the floor and looking over at the other cat is cat language for “come and get me!”  
 you gotta let go of the whole i don’t know anyone who took this long to introduce two cats. when i start to do that it makes me feel terrible. so let that go. also i think you should try two things. hang a blanket up on the netted door for now so sight is limited. this will reduce stress that has accumulated with all this fighting. also i think you need to really get into the habit of site swapping through out the day. switch which kitty is in which room. they both need to feel comfortable with the space before they can begin to trust each other. as far as the limited site thing, i think you need to slowly raise the blanket up every day. but maybe for the next couple days don’t let them see each other at all. they have to forget the stressful times they have had together and need to start having limited positive moments so they can start to build some trust. don’t hesitate to keep posting. all the advice you can get right now will help. most of all you hang in there and remain calm. you are the provider for them and they feed off the energy you put out. so if you are stressed, sad or mad they will pick up on it and it really plays into their behavior. someone told me this on the forum the other day and they couldn’t have been more right.  
 so glad that things started going better on sunday! i wouldn't stress too much about the after-vet fights. our resident kitties that have been friends for 8+ years hiss and fight when one goes to the vet. this is very normal, because the cat smells different and for a little bit the other kitty doesn't know if it even is the same cat coming back.   and i second trying not to compare this with other integrations. when i was in the middle of mine (and we are still getting better every day even after 10 months ...) i would be soooo jealous of those quick intros. these are your kitties for life, and it will take time for them to individually bond, or at least be in the same room. you will get there, and it will mean so much more when you see them get along since you understood what it took to get them there!  
 we made the biggest progress today, even though there was a bit of fighting before and after, there were about 2 hours that they were both awake in the same room. stella was plating under and near the computer table while i was working and betsy just sat and stared at her and even came to sniff her a few times. i'm expecting a setback tomorrow as stella is going back to the vat.  
 @sharkybu   good on you for taking in and fixing stella! and good on you for loving betsy. and trying to be a good mommy to both.  i can’t really offer any new suggestions any better than the ones already given.  but i’m in a similar situation; i just adopted a new kitten and already have 5 other cats. it’s been about three weeks and the other cats are getting to know the new one.   the problem appears to be between conan the destroyer (the kitten) and der baron von komfy (top picture), a much older neutered tom cat.     
 okay, so the ginger is not a kitten but a big boy ().  there is one thing that i find super funny about stella (the kitten). she'll walk from the bedroom to the kitchen and from the sofa to the computer table. but she won't go in the center of the living room (unless she's running back to the bedroom). i bring her to the sofa, i never saw her getting there on her own.   
 okay, it didn't show me that there is a photo in the second post.  
 ginger is a kitten, and i think he'll be a barbarian when he grows up. i can't get them to pose near each other, so it's not really clear yet.   
 wait!  missed a picture of conan und der baron really close - if not for long.  i kinda forced this one about a week ago. baron will get over it. note the difference in size.    
 update. this pics are from saturday. they sleep one next to the other but when they're awake they tend to fight. today was a really bed day. i don't sperate them right away but i try to interfere before the actual fighting starts. the kitten was on the chair and the cat came to sniff her out as usual, when i saw she's not backing off and even whacking the kitten when i'm right there, i decided to pick up the kitten and take her back to the room. when i picked her up, i saw that she peed on her self.   after a while i went to the room and betsy (the cat) snuck in between my feet (she does that, then hisses and then just sits and stares at the kitten while i chase her off). today she jumped and started hitting stella (the kitten), so i sprayed her, but she didn't even notice, so i came to pick her up and she hissed at me, so i grabbed her using a shirt and only then managed to get her out of the room. now she's just staring at the kitten through the gate.  it's been two month, i know it takes time, but its beginning to really be a problem for me. and this weekend i'm out of the country for 4 days, my dad will come and feed them, but i'm wondering if to leave them separated through the gate or to actually leave the door closed.  
 update- i stopped separating them at night. i still have to sometimes separate them so stella can eat and go to the litter box in peace (including during the night). they are testing each other limits (stella doesn't get why playing with betsy's tail gets her a smack from betsy). they still fight and betsy still has the upper hand. they sometimes fight while both sitting on me or near me (which lead to 4 tiny scratches on my cheeks, nose and upper lip). but for the last two night i woke up to this (see pic). plus this weekend stella was diagnosed with a possible slight case of asthma.  
 i have a new kitten, and a 10 year old cat, male and female. the baby has been quarantined for almost 3 weeks because of eye and ear infections, which i think have cleared up so now he can be introduced to the other cat, and be allowed some limited exploration of the house. my house is a 4 level townhouse, so there is no such thing as closing a door so he has limited run of the house, unless i keep him in the master bedroom but that is where mittens hangs out. also the litter boxes are in the laundry room at the lowest level, so i think i will have to make some changes with litter boxes, and also, i dont really want him in the laundry room unsupervised, as he could too easily hide in there. what is the best way to acquaint a new kitten with his new home?  
 has the 10 year old noticed the kitten yet? how has the 10 year old acted? you probably want to do a formal introduction process if the the 10 year old is showing signs of stress about the kitten.   definitely put a litter box on every level or your inviting problems. beyond that, kitten proofing is mostly common sense. just remember that kittens can quickly jump much higher than you think and do like to knock stuff off shelves. and you'll have to get in the habit of closing toilets, cabinets with cleaning supplies and such, but you may do that anyway. hiding behind/under appliances is mostly a problem if they are scared. since your kitten has a home base already, the kitten likely won't be scared -- unless the older cat is hostile and the kitten is not ready for that, but with 4 levels, the kitten will likely just avoid the older cat in that scenario.  
 i've never restricted a kitten like that unless it is for introductions myrna (or a few days to give the kitten a sense of safety); most people don't. its not that kittens can't get themselves in trouble, they certainly can, its that a month doesn't help. if anything, the increase in althleticism brings new problems. if this is a 12+ week old kitten and you have done what you can for kitten proofing, i'm not sure what the benefit is of waiting a month -- unless the introduction goes poorly and a lengthy formal introduction process is needed.   i've never liked the sound of the carrier with kitten introduction method, but its not the first time i've heard of a member using it and it certainly does have some logic. if you can isolate the kitten's room with double high baby gates, consider that as a more natural alternative that some members have been able to use successfully.  
 i'm thinking the age difference is having an influence on their introductions. yuki is a little kid that wants to play. mittens is a senior lady who won't be able to keep up with a kitten's energy even if she wanted to. is getting another kitten as a playmate for yuki an option?  
 no she does not appear unduly stressed. she is mostly hanging out on the upper level of the cat tree but she always did that.  
 but maybe the power of placebo shouldn't be overlooked. if the cat owner thinks the feliway will help/is helping, they might be less stressed themselves, which in turn could lessen the stress of the cats. i agree if someone doesn't have money to waste maybe it's not a good idea, but i have read of people who believe it made a difference, so who knows. my vet now has a cat only exam room with feliway plug in, so they must think it's worth the money.  i didn't think so. now, though, it'll be your job to keep the kitten entertained.   bored cat? what cat owners need to know (including 10 actionable tips) playing with your cat: 10 things you need to know   
 lots of cats love faucets. mine loves the toilet, and has learned to lift the lid. i now have the cleanest toilet in 5 states. if her fascination is with moving water, she just might love a fountain!  
 we had a water fountain but it was super hard to clean. anyone know of a good, easy to clean one? my cats would love that  
 i have this one:  i don't find it difficult to clean. you unplug it, pull the central red tower part off and clean that. underneath is a black motor, a piece of filter that goes around the motor and the filter casing. i rinse the filter that goes around the motor, empty the filter casing and wash it a little, replace the filter if needed and put the parts back. then i just clean the ceramic base. honestly, the whole thing takes 5 minutes. maybe.  
 she used to drink out of tub also  
 @rajanmizu i just purchased the round version of that one - and you're right @edie56, they are a tad pricey. i was willing to pay it because i'm hoping it convinces my 13 year old boy to stay on the floor. the landing when he jumps down from the counter is too hard on his shoulders/joints. it's good to hear that cleaning isn't a hassle !  here, if you scroll down the page a little, there are other options listed  drinkwell 360 stainless steel pet fountain, 1-gal  
    mizu gives hers two paws up.  
 also, just in case something in these helps, and some vets allow payment plans as well; no money for vet care? how to find help and save your cat's life  financial aid for pets  
 caring for an elderly cat when you are poor is agonizing on many levels ( i did it and it was very difficult.) the stress, guilt (you have to triage the cat's needs and your own), and pain were enough that i didn't get another cat for five years.   in any case, if you aren't sure that you are up to adopting a senior cat, my advice is... don't. adopt a young adult cat instead. you won't have a lot of worries about health for years, and you'll still be helping a non kitten find a home.  
 hello everyone! it’s been awhile since i’ve posted on here about arabella so i’ll give a brief history of our situation.  about a year ago, a neighbor’s cat started coming over and we fell in love with her. her family, i think unknowingly, neglected her and she was not in great shape (licked herself bald, cuts all over, thin, didn’t know how to play with cat toys) and she decided she was going to adopt us. around thanksgiving, we let her move inside into the heated garage and we would sleep together every night in there. when it started getting warm out, we migrated upstairs to my bedroom where there was ac. she wasn’t thrilled at first and preferred the garage, but she knows that’s our room now.   she’s very sweet, but sassy, and doesn’t like to be pet for too long. she would lay on my chest and purr as she nudged my face and i’d pet and scratch her cheeks, and after a few minutes she’d go to lay down in her own spot, next to me but not touching me. about a month ago, we converted the garage into a room for my grandma because she doesn’t have much time left and couldn’t live alone. before grandma got here, arabella was still hanging out in the converted garage sometimes, but knew come nighttime, we went upstairs to sleep in our own room. over the past few weeks, she’s slowly been jumping up on my chest and cuddling with me more often. usually i’d get a chest cuddle once or twice a week for 15 minutes, and now it’s to where she won’t sleep unless she’s on top of me or up against me. she used to lay in my spot when i would work late and she was in the room alone, but now, even if i get up out of bed for one minute, she’s jumping in my spot.   she tends to get sick a lot and when she does, she’s very really cuddly. when i was sick once, she was bringing me “gifts” every day and being cuddly. i’m not sure if she’s sick and just showing no other signs (she’s eating, playing like a mad women with her boa toys and cat nip toys, running around, climbing trees, working as pest control services of the property, and enjoying her cat nip and cat grass plants) but usually when she’s sick, i’m able to tell something is up. could it be because grandma just moved in and took her favorite room in the house and she can feel that i’m really stressed out and tense from taking care of her all day? it’s been really rough because she has dementia and my parents put it on me and my sister and i’m also trying to finish my last two college classes so i can get my degree, and working, and looking for jobs. is she trying to deal with the changes and/or comfort me? or did she just finally realize sleeping on or against her mommy is much warmer than sleeping alone? i don’t think she slept with her old family much so maybe it’s just new to her? any advice!?             
 obviously i can't comment on any potential medical issues but let's assume she's fine and dandy at the moment as your post suggests. small caveat: cats can mask pain and problems very well so with that in mind... i had a persian a few years ago and he was quite unfriendly and hid away a lot. this was for over a year after we got him when he was about 3yrs old. one day he came in from outside covered in muck and was very fretful. it seemed as though he'd been attacked and we were searching for blood and terrible wounds. however, he was fine and from that day on he became very friendly and cuddlesome. it was like a minor miracle. one of my current cat's, oliver, was always friendly but after we'd had him for about a year he suddenly became super cuddlesome for no apparent reason. i don't know why these changes occured but just to let you know a change in behaviour can happen for one reason or another. she's very cute by the way.  
 a trip to the vet might be worth it just for peace of mind.  my cats always start to get much more cuddly when the weather gets colder. did the change coincide with the fall weather we've been having lately on the eastern seaboard? it was particularly dramatic after the nasty hot, humid summer, which could explain the sudden change.  
 i emailed her vet and she said as long as she’s eating and i don’t see any other changes, that she’s probably fine. i torture my poor vet over every single little thing but she’s wonderful! there’s been times where she’s told me to come in asap, times where she called medicine in without making me come in, and times where she said just to keep an eye and she seems to make the right call every time. but now that you mention it, it did start as it cooled down outside so maybe that has something to do with it. i’m sitting in the backyard with her now and she’s playing with her plants (cat nip and cat grass) and stalking mice under our old van parked back here. if anything, she’s been eating more and has been more active since the weather has cooled down and has been hunting more. we had a brutal summer and i noticed she wasn’t as active, but i chalked it up to her hitting 7 years old this year but she’s back to being her active little self. maybe she’s cuddling more bc she’s not so overheated during the day and is just feeling better and not so cranky.   
 i didn’t even think of the weather thing!! she only adopted me last fall so i’m still learning about her and how she reacts to each season. this summer, she was super uncomfortable from severe allergies and the horrible heat and humidity. she is very allergic to mosquitoes and they were horrible this year. i would put the bug repellent on her neck and also got her two steroid injections that both last a few weeks to help. but her face got blown up twice from mosquito bites and her ears were all tender and scabbed from her itching like crazy. and then the heat was so bad that she wasn’t hunting and running around outside like she always has. i didn’t know if she was just aging (she’s turning 7) or if it was the combination of the heat and allergies. her allergies have subsided and the weather is beautiful now so maybe since she feels a lot better and she’s not as cranky, she wants to cuddle up to me and stay warm.  and yes, whenever she’s sick and doesn’t feel well, she’ll cuddle up to me so that’s why i was concerned. but if anything, she’s actually been more like her old self before the summer heat and allergies. i have to bring her in to get her nails clipped this week so i’ll ask them to weigh her too. thank you for your input!!!!   
 thank you she’s my little princess!! i was thinking that maybe bc she lost her favorite room and there’s someone new hanging around all day everyday that she wants to stay safe by being right next to her mommy. she knows i’ll protect her. it’s crazy bc i only got her s year ago and she trusts me so much. cats are so funny!   
 oh wow, what an amazing girl you have! our gohan, who was raised from a feral kitten by my bf, brings my bf his little plastic toy mice. there's usually a few by his side of the bed in the morning, and once after we went on vacation for a week there was a semi-circle of mice surrounding his computer desk chair. it was so sweet.  nothing alive though    
 i adopted a 6 year old orange tabby cat named sunshine this summer. he has been doing really good but lately he seems very depressed. he is an only cat so i don't know if it's loneliness, although he snuggles with my dog. a month ago i would walk into a room and say "hi sunshine!" and he would get so excited and run against my leg. but now all he does is lay on my bed and i'll walk in and pet him and he doesn't even purr. i'm worried about him.  
 what were you feeding him before and how much, and how much are you feeding now? switching to canned food would be the best option for him as you have better portion control and it is higher in protein and lower in carbs. i worry an obese male on dry only would not only have a risk of diabetes but also urinary troubles.  
 i am feeding purina beyond, organic stuff but he also gets soft food as well as dry. he likes dry and soft. i didn't put him on diet food. i rationed his daily food intake to what is recommended on the bag. if i don't do that he eats and eats and eats.  
 maybe you should start over and slowly reduce the amount he eats until over time you can gradually get it to the recommended amount. reduce the amount by a little at a time; maybe for a week or two before you lower the amount again.   of course, that would depend on how much you think he was eating vs. what you are allowing him to eat now. if the immediate reduction is too drastic it could affect his health, and lethargy and disinterest would likely be some of the signs.   i have included below an article about putting a cat on a diet, but i have also copied a couple of statements from the article, as emphasis on what to do and not to do. the 2nd excerpt is more related to a change in food, rather than just a reduction. but, tbh, a gradual change in food might be the way to go, as it could turn out he could have more food than you are currently allowing him.  getting an obese cat to lose weight needs to be done gradually… no crash diets allowed! cats have a unique metabolic response to fasting and whenever a feline’s food intake is rapidly and markedly depressed, a serious and potentially fatal disorder can occur called hepatic lipidosis.  first, your veterinarian needs to do a thorough physical exam, blood chemistry profile including thyroid hormone evaluation, and record an accurate weight for the cat. then you should gradually… over a period of three to four weeks… start putting your cat on the suggested feline weight-loss diet by adding greater and greater proportions of the suggested food. mix the new diet with the old, slowly decreasing the percentage of the old diet and increasing the percentage of the new one.  obesity in cats & how to put a cat on a diet | petmd | petmd  
 please talk to them about the best way to put him on a diet; tell them what you are doing, and see if they can recommend a better approach to doing so.   good luck with the appt. please keep us posted!!  
 i have heard of heading butting with a cat. kat and i do that almost daily, probably multiple times. but hitting me with her butt, and it's a big one, that's a new one. what kat likes to do when she gets into my lap -- and she's a big girl, just shy of 20 pounds -- is to walk around in a circle and just as she goes to lay down smack her rear end into the left side of my rib cage. with her size, it's a pretty good jolt. i just find it kind of amusing. does anyone else's cat do something similar.  
 i am still trying to get cheese to understand the no butts in faces command. it's been a year, not happening yet   
 i have a 4 year old nuetered male cat named onyx. prior to buying our home last october, he was a fully indoor cat as we lived in a second floor apartment. after moving, he got out a few times but would always come back in. over the winter, he stayed indoors. as soon as the weather turned nice he darts out our door as soon as we open it. i've tried feliway it didn't do anything. he waits by the door as he sees us grabbing our bags etc in the morning. i am able to usually bribe him to stay in by giving him treats as we're about to head out the door. there's two major stresses i'm aware of. we have a 9 month old puppy we got in february, and there are definitely strays in our neighborhood. the behavior started before we got the puppy. i have a neighbor 2 doors down who leaves food out for the strays and he eats there often, refusing to eat at home. i found him this evening (while grilling out) sleeping on a neighboring home's steps (vacant home) and brought him in the house. he immediately ran back to the door meowing to go out. when we came into the house with our hands full of grilled food he darted out the door running. i almost tripped over him. we live in a mobile home community, so our neighbors are close. we also live near the river and a wooded area. i fear for him being out every night because i know there's wild animals out there. one neighbor mentioned fischer cats. he hasn't come inside in about 2 weeks besides the 20 forced minutes today. i really don't know what to do with him. he's losing weight, felt thinner when i picked him up.  
 does this look like it would be okay? just for night time or when gone (i'm at stay at home mom so very rarely am i gone)   
 that looks terrific - i think that setup should work.  the only thing i would do is if you can, move the litterbox away from the tree and the food/water, or conversely move the tree, and the food and water, away from the litterbox (whichever is easiest for you), so that their resting places on the tree, and their eating and drinking area, isn't close to their poo and pee.  
 storm windows? screens on the outside? just use good screen, not the vinyl stuff.  
 she used to sit on the sill and the outside screen was rusted so it didn’t move. the new window have child labels (kids can fall out) and a bit of a groove. basically it feels like if she layed again the window screens with the window just a bit open it would collapse out and she would fall out the window.  i’m not concerned she’ll claw to get out. i’m concerned she’ll shove her body next to the screen on the window plastic and it’ll collapse with her falling out the window.  just to clarify i can’t screw the screens in. i don’t own the place and they are brand new.   has anyone tried something like this?  https://www.walmart.com/ip/wood-fra...uqthnbt5ymaidyo30oxwxa0vp8v9uaaboceqmqavd_bwe  
 hi! i'm coming at this from a little different perspective. your new cat is working very hard to figure all the newnesses (lol) out, and the extra pressure from a strange feline just outside her door is stressful.   if it were me i'd make sure she's eating and drinking first, so my answer to your first question would be yes. there's no need to hurry this, do give her a bit more of a chance to get some nutrition in her so she can better deal with it all   
 most of my cats have made it to their late teens and pretty much all of them became yowlers at some point. mostly late night, middle of the basement noisemaking but a little wandering and yowling throughout the house. older cats often develop dementia where they have periods of time where they may be restless and confused and i think this is where the yowling comes in.  
 did the vet check their blood pressure too? that is another important thing that can make them much more vocal when they age.   
 i estimate my cat to be about 13-14 years old. she is starting to yowl a bit too but i had a cat pass away in january and she is the only cat in the house now. she and timmer never got along and lived separately so it's not like she misses having someone to play with, but he was a presence in the house. and yet, she makes noise if i am home too. obviously if i am not at home i don't know what she does. i have no idea why she makes the sound but i think we have some good ideas here from these smart people.  
 and if anyone knows what breed they are, i'm all ears! they are somewhat long-haired if that helps. ears clipped by vet when spaying was done  
 i assume you have checked where she was spayed?  
 hi! can you put litterboxes in there? tell your husband it will be temporary...  
 when my cat was a kitten she did the same thing. i put pans of dry food under the beds and she stopped going u dear there.  
  that's a bit of a genius idea! cat's will just not "go" where they eat, unless there is real illness involved!   
 thank you for all your suggestions.  if our bedroom door and our daughters bedroom door is closed, he uses the litter boxes exclusively. he, as far as i can tell has a normal relationship with his mother. he still tries to nurse off of her, and they still snuggle, and she still bathes him.  i guess i also should have mentioned that for the first eight weeks of their lives they were in our bedroom. the kittens we’re not using the litter box so, they kept just going on the carpet, so we moved them to our large bathroom and they immediately litter trained.  
 have you used an enzyme cleaner to wash the carpet since the kittens went on it? if not, he can probably still smell those spots and thinks it's okay to go there.  
 an additional litter box in the bedroom will be helpful. please don't give up on him yet, i am sure that you can still train him since he is young.  
 does this happen when he does something wrong? tcs has some articles on cat discipline, as well as aggression, that may have some tips for you.  how to set healthy boundaries for your cat cats and discipline don't mix.  why do cats attack? cat aggression toward people  
 a little more information about the situation is needed to give advice....  what is he doing that leads up to him being told off? what are you doing that he can reach your face? do you have a photo of him? do you have daily play sessions?  
 she is just over a year old. we are saving up to get him neutered since we know how important it is.  
 thank you for the responses! should i just keep her separated from the others until i can get her checked? i'm sorry for all the questions, i've just never had any problems with any of them before!  
 keep us posted!!!  
 hi everyone! my two kitties are adolescents now (8 and 7 months old) and they are sweet as can be. however they are developing some pretty bad manners when it comes to the table/food.   i've never tried to control them jumping on the counters as we have a small apartment as is and i don't want to limit their worlds. i always wipe counters clean before preparing food of course. but now i'm thinking it was a mistake because every time i go to get their meals, they jump onto the counter and try snatching food before it's even ready. sometimes they even succeed. they also get on the table and sniff at my food when i'm eating. i always get them down and firmly tell them no, and sometimes i need to lock them in the bathroom when i eat. i've never fed them on the counter and i never give them table scraps but they still think they can get away with it for some reason. does this go away with age? are they just being teenagers testing their limits, or should i try something else?   i'm honestly considering a spray bottle at this point because nothing seems to be working.  
 you could try misting the doors with feliway spray. it’s used for inappropriate scratching and urination. if you spray it lightly, it probably won’t hurt the surface of the cabinet. if you’re worried about the moisture affecting the wood, though, you could lightly spray a cloth or towel and hang it on the doors on which he scratches.  
 my cat is about nine years old and she wags her tail all the time, non stop. the only time she does not wag her tail is when she is asleep, but otherwise that tail is always moving, i think she does it subconsciously. she doesn't like people touching it too. the vet said that he had never seen anything like it. i don't have any problems with her but i'm just wondering if anyone has seen this in another cat.  
 i have two cats who are 16 months old, littermates, although i didn't get them at the same time. they both wave their tails a lot, but they're usually purring while they do it, so i haven't been too concerned. they don't mind having their tails touched. in fact, they don't seem to notice it at all.  
 i can touch my cat's tail, but if i move it at all she meows and lets me know she doesn't like it. but if i touch her tail or just hold it in position she doesn't even notice. also, while the tail is always moving, she doesn't curl it up, she just flicks it from side to side, or if she is sitting/lying down she bops it up and down on the carpet. the only time she curves her tail is sometimes when she sits or when she's asleep.  
 we just adopted champagne 2 weeks ago. she's 7 yrs old and wags her tail. she doesn't have issues with me touching it. but she also will go into a full point when she hears a noise. it twitches even faster if she's stalking something.  
 update: forgot to mention i have watched him do it to make sure which of my two cats were peeing. and when i say puddle, i mean he does the entire pee there, it isn't dribbles.   
 hello and welcome to tcs. sorry it's litter box issues that brought you here. it's possible that the antibiotics haven't kicked in yet. my ruby had a uti a couple years ago (she was peeing tons of teeny pee clumps) and she also got a shot for the antibiotics, and it took a few days for the pee clumps to get back to normal. so hopefully things will get better in a day or so.  
 sylvie moves away from me when i cough or sneeze. she seems relatively unfazed by sneezing but acts terrified of coughing and can't get away fast enough. my mom's theory is that a cough sounds harsh and might make her feel as if she's being yelled at. i can't remember ever having yelled at her, but maybe someone did when she was out in the world as a feral kitten? i dunno. if she's snuggling with me and i feel a cough coming on, i do my best to stifle it!  
 a “bless you!” in cat language maybe? or just him wondering why you are making so much noise maybe.  
 freya will do it on occasion, when i clear my throat, but she's a meezer, so she'll also sometimes just sit on the floor, give me an exasperated look and start meowing at me for ten minutes ;>  
 my krista has a licking obsession. she’ll groom me, the blankets, the comforter. she leaves wet spots from this activity. and now i think it’s part of her hairball problem. i don’t know what to tell you. i guess i’m just chiming in to hear the advice from others. maybe get her a blanket or a stuffed animal for this and try to redirect her preference?  
 hi! i'm thrilled to hear they're getting along!! are you using unscented litter? there's a litter additive that's a "cat attract", and there's actual litter itself that has cat attract in it.  she's still just a baby, and young enough that she needs a litter box close by so she can get to it in time, so hopefully you're able to find a litter that doesn't bother your nose, until she's older and then you can try moving it again. ...would a small fan help? anyway, if you can, try scooping the box thats located where she's going outside of it more frequently, and see if that helps. hang in there!! let us know how things go   
 it could be that the placement of it in your bedroom is what she likes, and moving it caused the issue. i would get the cat attract litter and place that litter box where you want it to be. then, every other day, move the litter box that is in your room one inch over until it's in the room you want it. yes, it's long and tedious, but i've done this myself and it worked to change the placement of one particular litter box in my home. once the litter box is out of your room completely, and if she has not used your bed or anything else in your room to pee on, and hopefully she has used the one in the optimum location as well, you may be able to just put the old bedroom one in the same location as the other one. i would recommend that you still keep 2 litter boxes, as some cats don't like to pee and poop in the same one, or if it has already been used a couple of times, and you can't clean it right away, she'll have more "clean space" available with two litter boxes. if at any point she pees inappropriately while you move the litter box, just put it back a few inches (you don't have to go right to the beginning), then start up again.  hopefully the cat attract litter works and she'll want to use it exclusively, then you can slowly start mixing (just a bit at a time) whatever litter you would like to use on a regular basis. in the mean time, i would get an air purifier for your bedroom. it will help with the stuffiness. i hope i explained myself ok, just ask to clarify if not .  
  let us know how things go, we're rooting for her! i think she has it almost 100%, she just needs a little bit of extra help   
 i think so. if you can pull her into a firm/gentle hug when she gives you the look and before she swats it's a mama cat way of saying "not playtime"   
 well, though it's hard, try not to be scared! this is a perfect time to try to learn her body language (although, that can change in a split second and then back again, sigh). you can look, and blink and nod when she locks eyes with you, but the main goal is to not have an unmoving, direct gaze back at her. blink, bob your head, speak gentle words, distract her with a toy -- things like that, and she'll break herself out of the confrontation too. it's a give and take.  it's best to make sure everyone in the household (i mean, the other humans, if there are any) are on the same page about this! my husband is clueless with "catspeak", and he still, to this day, forgets to nod and blink and acquiesce to our kitty's direct gaze. if the cat is confused, her reactions will be to swipe at you... then you've gotten a bloody mark on your nose or a scratch on your own cornea! ack!  you've only had her about six months; it takes time for the both of you to learn each other's signals.   
 her name is “pushinka” which means “fluffy” in russian . and the nickname is a shortage just “pusha” “push” and such hehe   
 i think pretty soon she'll get some other nicknames!  like bossy or fiesty in russian!   then you can visit this thread, and let us all know! what nicknames has your cat earned?  
 no, i'm wrong, for the way i do it. it's not the whistle shape to the mouth, it's more of lips pulled in a grimace, teeth 1/4 inch apart. as you draw the air forward make a crackling sound. warning you may accidentally actually spit on your cat, so aim beside her.  pushpurrcatpaws probably has her own way of doing which doesn't involve actually spitting. i'd like to try something drier, because you know, not supposed to wet spit.  
 omg lol !!! that’s awesome thanks  dr mustache xdd  
 what's her diet like?  
 i clean the litter box more than once a day, and hk started using it more.  beside the possibility of a uti or other health issue, the litter may have a smell she dislikes or a feel on her feet she dislikes, or it could be because the other cat pounces on her when she goes to use the box. i'm guessing that could be it if she goes in the box more when you're there.  
 yes! my cats get urinary problems if they don't get enough canned food. i have to keep the dry food under half a cup.   
 hi @gusmom, thank you for your reply. yes she’s seen me stroking him and sitting with him. the problem now is that as soon as he sees her he runs away, so i don’t know how to go about getting them used to each other. he’s being bullied in his own home  
 do cats go through stages to their play? we got two kittens (3 weeks apart) who bonded and loved to cuddle and play with each other. this week though the older one, salem( 8 months) doesn't seem to want to play with his friend, tattoo, anymore. tattoo will initiate play, but salem just ignores him. salem still wants to play, and spent about 2 hours last night carrying around his favorite toy playing with it. but as soon as tattoo comes over to play, he leaves to find something else to play with. as far as i know nothing happened, their play sessions seemed normal. they'll play in the covers on the bed together. but independently, not wrestling and pouncing each other. also, salem has become a huge cuddlebug with me, and he used to never want lovies because he was to busy running around the house like a crazy man. tattoo wants so badly to play and wrestle with his brother. is salem going through an independent play phase or is the brotherly bond gone for good? is he now a "to cool for school" cat? is a 3 week difference big enough at this age to be in different phases of life? how can i help tattoo cope with losing his friend?  
 thank you for your response. they are both neutered. i'm pretty hyper vigilant about my cats health and haven't noticed anything unusual. all eating, pooping, and peeing is totally normal. play is normal too, just in a different manner. tonight salem jumped up on the bed, gave tattoo a quick bath and cuddle and then wandered off again. this is the first time i've seen that in a very long time. salem was always sweet, but he always seemed to distracted by play than lovies. i could only get lovies from his when he first woke up. now, that is his preferred way of interacting with me. he has gotten progressively more shy since we first got him, while tattoo has gotten progressively more outgoing.  
 *dupe post  
 maybe the personality changes they are going through - kind of in opposite directions, right now anyway - explains the change. glad to hear salem gave tattoo some attention, and hope that helped to satisfy him somewhat. if it did, you could kind of 'nudge' them into more of those situations? as long as there is good interactions between them, tatoo will adapt.  
 good time of the year to check out halloween items that are motion activated. looks for ones that jiggle and make noise. it should work for on top of dresser. as far as the sofa, it shouldn’t be too difficult to block off the bottom and back with cardboard so they simply can’t get back there.  
 honestly, i have been the scary thing that made noise when the cats went where they shouldn’t. however, i have also removed things like jewelry that i didn’t want them attracted to or playing with because making the spot less interesting is the best deterrent. as far as the halloween stuff we are a big halloween neighborhood and i have tons of motion activated stuff i have to put batteries and try out when getting ready to decorate. learned from experience that cats don’t want to be anywhere near them.  
 hey there, i'm sure you've ruled out any possibility of licking places because they itch or hurt and because she does it to others, hands, objects etc. it's most likely providing a comfort much the same way people bite their nails when stressed. either there's a current reason for her anxiety or there once was and she's continued the behavior because it's become pleasurable and that reinforced the behavior.  
 don't you realize that we exist to serve our mast- er, i mean cats?  
 yours watch?  mine 'help' me mostly by trying to re-bury the clumps as fast as i find them. either that or providing a fresh deposit in the specific box i'm cleaning at that moment.   
 hmm...i have two sons. i might take the sometimes out and just leave it at that.   now i'm going to have master of puppets playing in my head all day, thanks! "...obey your master, master!"   
    
 i’ve gad my first cat for over a year now, and he’s always been very sweet and loving, always wanting to be cuddled and petting to the point i have to get space from him. i recently got a new kitten, who is also very mild mannered and affectionate, and brought him home a few days ago. it was a snap decision, i went to a local shelter just to look since i had a free day and i had gotten approval from my landlord already, and i was basically claimed by my new kitten.  i wasn’t aware that the cats needed to be separated and gradually brought into this (i’ve only had my first cat with no other cats before him, unless you count my old roommates cat) and immediately my first cat lost his mind. he started growling and hissing, which i’ve never heard from him before, and he’s extremely agitated all the time. i immediately put them in separate rooms and looked up what to do, and followed the suggestion of putting them in their own spaces and letting them get used to each other’s smells. i’ve also been lightly scenting the furniture with the new kitten’s scent, which was what i read to do online. my first cat is still incredible agitated though, and even hissed at me for the first time today. i’m not sure what to do, it’s been 3 days and my first cat is still hissing and growling at the room with the kitten in it, with absolutely no sign of change.  
 hi! well first let me ease your mind a bit and say that three days is not nearly long enough to start worrying about them getting along. and even when they are able to be in the same room as each other there will probably still be some hissing and growling as they establish their hierarchy in the home. i will assume that the resident cat (older) will do most of the "bitching" to keep the kitten "in check".  i remember when my cat needed to stay at the vet for about a week. when we brought him back home, it took over a month for my other cat to accept him back into the home because he no longer recognized him (his smell) anymore. and they already had lived together (as buddies) for 6 years at that point!  when i first brought home one of my cats as a kitten, it took just over 2 weeks for my eldest cat to "tolerate" him, and slowly they began to be friends. (with a few hisses and growls in between)   just continue with what you are doing and follow the tips in the link that @artnj provided for you. it will most likely be just fine, especially if your resident cat is still young. but we are here if you need some extra support and tips!!!  
 yes!! if at all possible, give blackjack a place to hang out that is not in his toilet! if you have any throw blankets or towels from your grandmother's place that you can use to create sleeping/resting places for blackjack, that can only help.  honestly, in my opinion, pooping just outside the litter box is a complaint about either the type of litter in the box (try using a clay litter!), or the type of box (size, covered), or how often it is cleaned (auto / manual). a cat that poops on the carpet 1ft away from her litter box knows that is the preferred area, but doesn't like the box for some reason.  as far as introductions with your resident cat, that of course can be tricky, and you want to take that step by step. scent introductions, outside-the-same-door feedings, sight introductions, and mutual playtime, etc......there are lots of resources/threads here to help if you need.  
 just to add in my own experience with fatty liver with a cat who only licked gravy: what really helped her eating again was getting a mousse food. it was easy for her to lap up. i got the mousse from tikicat because they are high in protein and good in calories which is very important for fatty liver.  to let you know: she needs to be getting as close to her daily caloric intake as possible. for every 1 lb, you need 20 calories. therefore if blackjack is supposed to be 8 lbs, she needs 160 calories daily.   i don't want to scare you, but have you informed in case it gets to this. if she does not really eat (only doing the gravy you're rubbing on her), you need to syringe or force feed her. the mousse food is easy to syringe feed because it needs very little water to make liquid but can also be syringe fed as is.   if she does not improve, she needs to see a vet. licking lips while looking at food is a sign that her stomach is upset.  
 per all your advice, i called my vet as soon as they opened, they advised me to keep trying random wet foods with blackjack to see if i hit a jackpot, and also to try sprinkling catnip on the floor to see if it will make her more relaxed. they're happy that she's drinking, and they said if she doesn't eat or poop by monday, to give them a call (they're not open sundays). they do house calls, so i'll probably go that route so i don't re-traumatize this poor cat.  she's really a stressed-out mess. she hisses at my boyfriend and i whenever we stand up and walk near her, but then will headbutt my hand and roll over as soon as i pet her. i've taken to navigating the room on my knees just to keep her calm, haha.  
 i would just hold off on the vacuuming for a while longer, gross as it may seem to you. most cats are just terrified of the noise and putting her in a carrier may upset her as well. if you really feel you must, i would leave her out and go with the roomba. as long as she has an up high place to go she may be okay with it.  
 yay! she ate! and pooped! in the litter box!   you know, i think i'd also try to hold off vacuuming a little bit longer. some of the excess fur might be due to her being stressed. and, of course, being a long-haired cat. would a link brush, or lint roller get any of the fur off the carpet?  is she still in her crate? and, i can't remember, do you have any pets?  also, does she seem nervous when you stand up over her to give her treats. another suggestion with ferals is to not loom over them, but to stoop down to their level. so just another thing to keep in mind, if she seems anxious.  
 ok, i'll try to hold off vacuuming for a few more days. the hard thing is that my boyfriend and i seem to be slightly allergic to her (she's probably producing way more dander than she should be due to the state of her coat and stress, also) and we keep waking up with stuffy noses and itchy eyes. i have an air purifier going in the room, which i was just able to turn on today after socializing her to it for the past 2 days. hopefully that will help.  she's not confined to her crate, i've left it in the room with the door open as a safe space and kept the litter box inside. i have another litter box out, but the one in the crate is the only one she's using. i do have a resident cat, and he has free run of the apartment while she's kept separate in the bedroom. any time she hears the slightest noise from him beyond the door, she either bolts or starts growling. i was hoping i would be able to open the bedroom door eventually and make my life a little easier, but i'm starting to think that will never be possible just because of how badly she's reacting to the sound and smell of him. he, on the other hand, is purely curious about her, no hostility or fear.  the standing thing is weird, she's perfectly fine if i stand still and will rub all over my legs. it's when i go to take a step that she gets scared. she could be on the other side of the room, and she'll dart over in front of me, hissing, and bat at my feet when i try to walk. it's not every time, but it's happened on a few occasions already. barefoot versus shoes seems to make no difference.  i do try to be on the floor with her as much as possible, and she always sprawls out, belly-up, and starts napping when i hang out with her (that's my leg in the pic of her doing this - she'll lay right up against me). my own cat doesn't even roll over and show his belly and he's the friendliest and most trusting cat i've ever met!  
 no, of course not! i have a baby gate and everything, i was planning to do the scent swapping, door cracked, whole 9 yards. but i'm starting to think that's just wishful thinking and she's just not a cat that can handle other cats (which is fine, it just means i have to deal some minor annoyances).  i actually just got a little backstory on blackjack today which explains a lot of her behavior. she was born outside in my aunt's neighbor's yard to a feral mom. the neighbor trapped the kittens and adopted them out, and my aunt adopted blackjack and gave her to my grandmother (not sure where the declawing happened in this process). so blackjack essentially spent her early socialization period outside with a feral mom, and then spent her entire life in the same house with the same person (my grandmother), and zero interaction with other cats. my grandmother's home life is very... stationary, so no real changes or excitement of any kind. blackjack probably had the same routine for 5 years. this poor cat has everything working against her, it's no wonder she's so terrified. but under all that stress she's so sweet, she rolls over and purrs and headbutts me so hard she knocks things out of my hands, haha!  
 look at all that fur! it's like you brushed out a small cat! her fur is looking great, btw.   so glad she's doing better. maybe when she gets a bit more relaxed, and you're not wearing pj pants, you could carry her into the bathroom, or another room with a door, so you could vacuum her room.  
 i give mine a few greenies and he leaves me alone. ignoring him did not work, he will meow all night, and if i put him out of the bedroom, he will throw his body up against it all night. i'd rather take a minute, give him some greenies and go back to bed! good luck whatever you have to do to get some sleep!  
 maggie's pretty!  
 one thing that helps is to talk to her while i'm in bed and she's in the living room meowing for attention or play  
 i think having a designated "cat room" is a great idea. if you have your own house, this is ideal. if you are in an apartment, it may still disturb the neighbors. i tried a cat room for my yowling boy, but because the walls are thin, it is not going to work. in a house, this would be ideal, though. i feel for you - this can be a complicated issue. if he wakes you at 5:30, that's pretty good. mine begins the yowling shortly after midnight, off and on until after 3:00 am.  
 i got a 6 month old male kitten a little over a month ago and at first he was nice and sweet and cuddly but lately he's been having some aggression. i don't know if he's just being playful or what because i've never had a cat of my own, but he's been biting me and it hurts. i'll be petting him and he will grab my hand and literally gnaw on it, not just a cute little nip, but gnaw on it. not breaking skin but his teeth are really sharp and it hurts. he does it with strength too, he really holds on tight with his paws. also in bed he will be laying near my face all sweet then the next he tries to bite my face or he bites my hands. he goes from being really sweet to just biting me hard. another thing he does is sometimes when i'm just walking in the room, he will literally launch at my leg and latch on like a tree trunk and just gnaw away at it until i kick him off. he's never hissed at me, so i like i said i'm not sure if this is aggression or playfulness.   nothing i do to try to make him stop works. i have yelled ouch, said a firm no, tried scuffing (not lifting him), he doesn't care. only thing that works is if i get up and walk away, but that doesn't seem like a solution because i don't want company to come over and have him launching at them or biting them and the only solution is telling my company to leave the room or push the cat off.  he isn't fixed yet but will be within the next 2 weeks. also he recently lost a baby tooth but i don't know if that's why he's biting me now. i give him plenty of toys to chew on.  
 so you think this is just playfulness? i mean sometimes it seems like it, but i thought that cats just playfully nipped, not actually tried to eat your hands. sometimes even his ears go back while he's biting my hands, or he gives me a "look" and pounces on my leg or something. i'm not sure. this isn't all the time though, usually just when he's hyper.  i know another cat would probably be ideal, but i can't afford one right now and this one i have is a handful xd  i'll try the toy idea, that means i'll always have to have a toy around me though lol.   
 i have no idea what this kittens backstory is. january 25th he ran into my house and i decided to keep him lol. "as a kitten mine would get big pupils, ears back, and launch himself onto my ankles",  well that's good to know! well not good, but just good to know he isn't just being aggressive. only time i've ever heard this cat hiss is when he saw another cat out the window. he didn't even hiss at the vets when they put a thermometer up his butt, lol, just screeched a ton. i guess i will just try to wear him out more, cause another kitten right now is out of the question :\   
 i know it's already been said, but it is just playfulness. i have two that are about 10 weeks old and sometimes the look like they are engaged in a full-blown war, but since they are totally silent i know they're just goofing around. they arch their backs and puff themselves up, looking as menacing as possible, then they go for the jugular! afterwards, they are all cuddles and purrs and groom each other.  the advice here is good. do keep a toy handy to redirect him whenever you need. you can even physically take him off of you and put him on the toy (if it's a big one) so he gets the idea that biting you=immediate removal; biting toys=acceptable.  whenever ours played too rough with me, i gave them a firm (but not loud or mean) no followed by putting them on the floor and ignoring them; or, if they were on the way to playing rough but not there yet, i would immediately grab a toy and let them chew on that. if they had to be put on the floor, all was forgiven in that moment and they were allowed to jump back up as soon as they wanted, as long as they continued to behave. if not, they were put right back on the floor. they soon learned that it was too much work to have to keep jumping back up on the bed and so it's easier for them to just behave. (i used the same method to teach them not to chew or claw our couch cushions, and i'm very pleased with the results. and now sometimes a firm no is enough to make them rethink chewing on a forbidden item.)  
 kickeroos are great! i've got several in my house for my 'high spirited' boy. he often just goes wild and jumps on our old cat, but throw the kickeroo out and he's on it! i put one in a bag with cat nip and keep exchanging them to keep his interest up. i know he was way too rough too when he was a kitten, and neutering definitely helped. he drew blood, but in a 'rough' way, not a 'mad' way. i've been bitten and scratched by feral babies and there is a difference, believe me! he would hide and jump on your legs too, but we did yell no! and gave him another toy and would leave the room until he calmed down. he still plays too rough at 5 years old, but we just make sure we initiate play with a toy and not our hands.he also takes a lot of aggression out on those corrugated cardboard scratchers you can buy for 10.00. you can turn them over for twice the use and they save your furniture.                                                                                                        
 one thing that hasn't been discussed is that the cat might be in some pain and when you play with him or pet him it could be hurting him to where he strikes out a little to let you know.  you mentioned he has been sick, maybe a vet visit is in order.  we had one cat who was a biter, but not a mean bite, just a nip when you petted her on her back.   we always assumed it was just her funny temperment, but we began to wonder because she had been viciously attacked by a male tom cat when she was a little kitten and she almost died, she had $ 1000 worth of stitches in her.   we came to the conclusion she might have been in pain when we touched certain parts, even though she was like that all her life (15 years).  otherwise, she was a sweet cat and loved to snuggle and sleep with you.  maybe you have something like that going on.  don  
 agreeing with the others, this being playfullness and that. him not knowing it does exagerrate a trifle and it hurts, so some teaching may be in order. proceed with these ouch and so on, even some hissing, like a cat friend would do.  i want to add, it may also be here a measure of love when he is tugging your hands. the classical cat love bites...  one of my residents do so sometimes. although he tries to be very gentle, so it doesnt bother me much.  i agree also with the said earlier, when a cat wants to bite for real, they bite holes without any trouble. there is a tremendous force in the cats jaws, if they want to bite for real. your hand will hurt because the sheer brute force several days even if you do have thick gloves on.  without gloves the wounds will be deep halfway in.  i dont even mention common drawing blood which they can make without real effort.  so if they dont draw blood, it is friendly nibbling. at worst - a friendly warning, not more.  
 my kitten is doing the same . if you find out please lete me know .  
 i have to agree that if kittens are taken away to young from their siblings, they don't learn how to "play" nice.  i've had a couple like that and found out that if their playing got to rough when i was playing with them, i would then yell ouch however many times it took for them to stop.  for one thing, the loud noise of yelling would be enough to make them stop and usually back off.  they're adults now and we still play but if they get to rough, i yell ouch and they stop.  
 same deal in my house pretty much, i got a cute little rescue boy back in january...he was 5 months old then, so 7 months old now.  he was already neutered, they do that right away at this rescue.  first couple of days, he was mamma's snuggle baby.  most well-behaved cat ever.  after that 2 days or so, well...not s'much.  although he is still awesome, and totally adored for his personality!  he is quite ferocious at times.  thing i've learned is to read his language.  he has several "modes" of existence and they don't generally overlap.  so if it's sleep time, and i try to pet, he may bite a little or (more likely) get up and move away to lay back down where i can't bother him.  if it's play time and i try to pet him, yeah it's gonna be all teeth and claws.  because i ignored his very clear tail whipping or posture messages that it is not petting time right now!  so if it's playtime, we can't force him to be a cute little snuggle-bunny, he is a mighty predator and killer of invisible things!  or our legs!  whatever!   i'm pretty confident that as he eventually gets older he'll chill out some.  he's just all young and feisty now.  one suggestion that has really helped in my house is to trim his claws.  believe it or not, he actually sits still for this (i know, i was shocked.)  get the little clippy scissors they sell specifically for this purpose even at walmart, and just clip the ends--be careful not to get into the "white" part of the claw, or basically too close to the toe, you can hurt your cat...but doing this once a week saves me from being sliced up.  his razor/fishhook claws were doing a lot more damage than his teeth.  
 welcome to tcs, sonicspork.  trimming claws is a good way to protect yourself, i agree.  my ladies hate the scissors, but will put up with human nail clippers.  just avoid the white part and the pink part of the claws, as you said.  
 lol  - or - maybe a "play date" with another feisty kitten.    
 there's always the water filled spray bottle.  i can't remember if you said that he's has been neutered yet,  if not, i would get it done as soon as possible.  with some males, as they start coming into sexual maturity they start getting more aggressive and usually taking care of the little testosterone carriers will help.  
 my kitty tiny is the same way! he flops and shows his belly, but he doesn't really like having it stroked. instead, i run my hand down his side once or twice, and he seems to enjoy that.   
 that's correct. for us like cat owners sometimes we find this as "cute" to play with our kitten with our hands but is highly not recommended. instead, it is very necessary to get a good pack of toys to make your kitten play and spend all that energy it has. i know a very good toy that is a scratcher at the same time. it is called bergan turbo sratcher. it is a very good toy.  hope i can help.  
 i do push him off :\ i feel bad for him especially in the morning because he's purring and wanting to jump on my lap and wants rubs but then he just goes right to biting me and i have to push him off. i can't even pet him give him attention without him biting me now.   
 my cat does the same thing and i just hiss at him and he goes away and stops  
 i have two 8 month old kittens. they also "play bite," but they are gentle.  they are brother and sister and have wrestled with each other since i got them at 9 weeks (and before).  they learned to be gentle with their mouths and their claws by playing with each other.  a single kitten doesn't learn how to moderate his bite, but still wants to wrestle.  he's also probably teething, and could also still have some left over nursing behavior.  one of mine likes to suck on my hair, and sometimes tries to suck on my finger.  he has been calmer since he got neutered at 6 months.  have you tried teething rings or something similar to redirect his biting?  my kitten's favorite toy is "da bird" a wand toy with fluttering feathers. they go crazy for it.  if you wear them out, they are less likely to use you as a toy.  
 i doubt it's really aggression, ours are 3~5 yrs old and sometimes just 'play rough'   kat-kat will roll over then do the full kick, scratch, bite thing, he's 'drawn blood' several times but it's ok as he's only playing. i 'know' it's going to happen and could just leave him alone but he's so much fun.  i prefer my cats to be happy rather than controlled and, they do seem real happy to me     
 lol my 6 month old kitten willingly takes my whole finger in his mouth ( his doing not mine) he is a bad biter too. he is currently 5 months old and i was hoping he would have grown out of it by now and he often draws blood. he has his moments of great affection like having to rub his face all over my face before he goes to sleep. i read this thread hoping to find hints on how to resolved my kittens terrible biting have found a few good hints but i dont think shoving a finger down his throat is one   
 hi i now have 3 cats 2 male and one female. the female is 7 years old and the male is 6 years old and the little one male is 6 months old. have them neuterd does not stop them biting you as my older male has been done and its only been the last year he has chilled out. we had done at 7 months old so quite a long time agao now. :lol3:  
 thanks again for your kindness, friend. he did, in fact, just use his litterbox--thank the gods. i was really worried about that; his previous home reported litterbox issues due to stress about a new (human) baby, although my friend--when he stayed with her--didn't have any, and hers was a multicat home.  however, i've meanwhile broken down crying and sincerely wish that they made pheromone collars for humans. i could really use one.   why the hell is this so hard (on me, i mean)? logically i knew what i was getting into and thought i was up to the task; now (and it's only been a few hours!) i'm feeling woefully emotionally unprepared.   
 we have all been through it - post adoption anxiety. whether first , second or seventh, it is always an adjustment to their personality, how they fit in,whether you will love them as much as the others, what if?, what if?, what if? a few deep breaths, maybe a little wine and then forget about the newcomer for a few hours and enjoy friend’s company. my morning you will be feeling better.  
 hello,  first post here. i'm not sure what to do about my cat. she is a pure bred siberian cat that was given to us by a friend 3 years ago. we've had frequent problems with her peeing on stuff.  so far she has peed all over my kid's closet, bean bags, beds, clothes, bath mats, baby's bassinet, down sleeping bags, camping tents, and of course the white carpet in our basement. she started peeing on one section of carpet and it was so bad that it couldn't be saved and i spent a lot of money having that area tiled. now she has moved to a different section of the basement and started peeing on that carpet.  i have tried taking her to the vet and getting treated for a uti. different litters, bigger litter boxes, changing to all wet food, and several other things. i'm at a loss for what to do. she is declawed - her original owner did this and i am wondering if this is why we are the 3rd family to own her and she is 5 years old.  i can't keep this up much longer. my house is getting destroyed and i can't afford to replace all of my flooring. even if i do that, she'll probably start peeing on something else.  where do i go from here?  
 oh, boy, poor kitty, and poor you. i know how frustrating that can be. when's the last time she was checked for a uti? some cats can have recurrent problems with that.   i've had a similar issue with one of our cats. he's had frequent utis but the inappropriate peeing has also turned into a behavioral problem.  i finally got him on prozac. it hasn't fixed the problem 100%, but has helped a lot. i also try to pay attention to when he's getting agitated and try to spend more time playing with him or brushing him to help keep him calm.  
 hello and welcome to tcs. so sorry it's litter box avoidance issues that brought you here.   have you heard of litter box crate training? it doesn't come up very often on the forums, and it's pretty extreme, but in cases like yours, it is one more idea to consider.  here is a link that explains it: http://www.ourcompanions.org/pdf/oc crate training for your cat.pdf  plus, an older tcs thread by a member whose cat showed some improvement: about to start crate training for my extremely litter box averse cat  and a current thread by another member who is giving crate training a try: crate training my cat  
 recently rescued a little kitten. we put him in the litter box multiple times. well he ended up pooping on the floor. was kinda runny like diarrhea. i don’t know if that’s important but i figured i would add that. the litter box was cleaned but as soon as i would put him in. he immediately would jump out of it. didn’t know if there was some tips or tricks on how to get him to use the litter box. and yes. i will be scheduling an appointment with my vet on monday just to make sure he is healthy and taken care of!  
 sweet little baby! i think a vet visit would be in order, if he has parasites or is ill that could cause litter box problems.  also you may want to try different litters? cats often do like clay litter, i find the finer grain is better, and no fragrance. im not sure what kind you are using, but it would be worth it to try a few different ones. most cats i have ever used clay with really like fresh step. they have unscented, or my son uses the hawaiian aloha scent, its fairly mild. i use a grass litter, abound that i get from kroger, dont get it too deep or they dont like it. or littermaid walnut litter that i get from walmart, my cats really like the consistency of this one. for a kitten his size i would only put an inch or two of litter in the pan, it might make it easier to use, and just dump and refill more often. when he gets the hang of it you can go deeper.   another litter, i got it from amazon, that my cats really liked was catspot coconut litter. its very soft, non clumping, which for one cat would be fine. all 4 of mine would only use the box with this litter when i had it out. all 4 using the same box overwhelmed it quickly. but it was hands down the favorite litter they ever used. for one cat with litter box avoidance i think it would be a good try.     
 awww... what a sweetie pie.  thanks for rescuing him.  with the diarrhea, he may need deworming. or a change in food. so the vet visit is a good idea. and hopefully once the diarrhea is cleared up, it'll be easier to litter box train him.  i also wonder if the litter box is too big. shallow litter boxes are best for kittens. even a low sided cake pan, that you won't need to use again, can work.  here's a tcs article with more tips that should be helpful:  how to train kittens to use the litter box  good luck. keep us posted.  
 hi. if it would be possible to separate each cat and a box with clean litter, and keep them that way until each box is used - one box by each cat. i was hoping that if each had a 'box of their own', it would discourage the others from using it. a lot of work, to be sure. and, i have no idea how to handle the 5th box...   has this been going on all along with the female, or a new development? if a newer behavior, it might be the result of an illness going on with her, and could even possibly explain another cat now getting into the same behavior? either through his ability to detect something is wrong (scent wise), or that whatever is going on with her is spreading. not trying to be alarming, but these things just don't start to happen without a reason.   sorry for the crummy advice - surely other members will come along soon and have much better ideas to offer.  
 hello and welcome to tcs. sorry it's litter box issues that brought you here. are all 5 litter boxes in the same room/area? or spread out throughout the house?  about the peeing over the side, my ruby girl is a stand up pee-er and getting a high sided litter box solved the problem of pee occasionally ending up on the floor. also, be careful of 2 piece litter boxes, as the pee can seep through the seams.  
 cassie has been pretty much the same since the kitten. she was always sweet and cuddly. she'd run and hide when people come, but she's getting braver.. slowly.  monet became more affectionate as he got older. i still get surprised when he decides to crawl in my lap and stay there for more than 5 seconds, lol.  
 my cat, luna, has acted more laid-back than a kitten, but still cheerful and energetic. she's almost one year old now. she got sick and it stunted her growth and behavior...so now she acts like a baby and clings onto me any chance she gets.  
   i have a 6 month old female kitten, who is rarely/never aggressive with humans but almost without fail is skittish around other animals. up until 6 weeks old, she lived in a house with plenty of other animals, two small dogs included. since i’ve had her, though, she spends very little time with other animals. recently i’ve moved closer to my mom’s house, so i have attempted to take kitty along with me for weekend visits. mom has two male dogs (boxer and yorkie, for size reference) and a male kitten. i bring our litter box/food/toys along and put that with her kennel in my bedroom, and keep the door closed. she hisses around the room, and refuses to be anywhere but the kennel. when i go to bed, she hops up and gets under the blanket to lie next to me, but she still hisses at the corner of the bed, looking all around to see if there’s anything in the room with us. we’ve tried gently introducing her to one of the animals but she responds with aggression every time. i don’t know how to make her more comfortable. i’d even have peace of mind if she could just relax a bit more when she’s closed in my bedroom.  
 a man may have terribly hurt her when she was younger. men have louder voices and just appear more menacing to a small, timid animal. if you are absolutely sure your boyfriend has not hurt her in any way, or even yelled at her, (cats, and dogs, have an uncanny way of sensing hostility/danger in people) then it is something she has had happen in the past and will take a long time to get over. i would suggest that for now, he ignores her. just let her try to get used to his presence. the number one rule in getting a cat to like you is to never force them into anything! ignoring a cat usually brings results because then there is no menace felt that approaching one or reaching for one brings. remind him to never stare at her, staring is what toms do in the wild and is considered a threat. it is not unusual for cats to be afraid of all strangers in their house, my cats hide for days when we get company. even though they have been over for years. just go about your routine for a month or so. cats take a long time to adjust to change in their routine. then slowly have your boyfriend offer to play with her with a wand, and have him leave treats in the room where she is hidden. have him talk to her in a quiet, soft voice, but mainly just be in the room where she is and get her used to him. all of my cats prefer to be with me, and it hurts my husbands feelings. they don't hide from him and will sit on his lap if he lifts them there, but they always all come and sit on my lap. i really think that men in general are just more commanding and appear frightening to a cat. or at least more demanding of respect. and it is men who usually do hurt cats and somehow they sense this. i believe it will take a stranger timid cat like your own almost a year to learn to love your boyfriend, but it will happen, you earn a cat's love, and it is very rewarding when you finally do! good luck!  
 i was given the job of taking baby girl to a less than happy experience at the vets and when we came home, she snubbed me like your ex girlfriend or boyfriend did when you broke up in junior high. she stayed about 6 feet away, and anytime i looked at her, spoke to her, or reached for her she ran.  later, i sat in my chair and she walked in all aloof, so i was aloof back and ignored her. pretty soon, she sat by the chair, not looking at me. a few minutes later, she pretended like she was being forced to jump in my lap, but did so, and sat down, facing away from me. i kept reading. about 5 minutes later, i look at her and she's sitting, facing away from me, head back, sound asleep. poor kid was exhausted.   
 bingo!    judiann said: ↑  another thing that crossed my mind was she may be holding a grudge against me for taking her to the vet to find out what was causing her change in behavior. so not only may she be adjusting to my son's move in but now she is ticked at me for taking her to the vet.click to expand...  cats don't hold grudges like that. they just don't think that way. they can have fear if you hurt them, that is something else entirely. but they are not vindictive. they don't get revenge because you took her to the vet last week, or changed their food, or whatever...   
 hello cat people. my one year old cat has always been very playful and especially loves his chaser/teaser toy that has long strands and feathers. he goes crazy for the toy and loves to chase it. i’ve always noticed he lets out a sharp/heavy exhale when playing but i had assumed it was because he was catching his breath or something. today i noticed he was hissing when he would catch the toy and i’d pull it away. when i realized it was a hiss i put the toy down and watched his behavior. he seemed confused as to why i stopped playing and eventually plopped down next to me. he’s not an aggressive kitty and never bites or hisses towards me or anyone for that matter. but why the random hiss during play time?  
 i have 7 indoor cats. the mothers had them and left us the bundle. one of the cats, who are now 2.5 years old developed a útil, twice. i took her to the vet and she was on 2 separate courses of antibiotics. since that happened, she started peeing on my sofa, as well as in the litter box. i put a plastic and pads on the sofa. she goes on the sofa and pees on the pads. now her sister has started doing the same thing. they both also use the litter box. i try to figure out what to do. i thought perhaps they don't like the pads on the sofa because they want to sleep on the sofa. i'm afraid if i take off the pads they will mess up my sofa. i thought of putting a cloth cover over the pads, so they don't see them and will not pee on the sofa. none of the other 5 cats have this problem. i'm seriously thinking of giving them too much. what can i do? please help!!  
 some cats are more vocal than others. the siamese family especially so, but there is quite a bit of variation among randombred cats as well. so, if she’s acting normally (eating, drinking, playing, and using the litterbox), then i think that the meowing is just her wonderful, unique personality. if you’re concerned, though, this is always something that you can ask about at your next vet appointment.  
 what kind of cord covers are you using? maybe try something like chandelier cord covers from amazon. since they are cloth he may not be interested in them.  
 i have been considering a second kitten, and i had recently spent about 30$ on amazon on a large assortment of toys including one of the round ball tracks and a cat tunnel but he just really likes the cords. i feel that this behavioral issue is attributed to boredom mixed with the fact that he is 4 months and his adult teeth are still growing in. i like all the ideas about tubing and diffrent ways to protect the cords but i still have issues with the very ends, and even protecting the cords is getting difficult as he has chewed through an aluminum braided cable ($30) last week.   
 mingo did this when he was a kitten. i've forgotten how many ac adaptors i had to replace, but it was a lot.  chewsafe will solve the problem. it's clear tubing slit down the side so you can cut it to the proper length and then stash the cord inside it. mingo still chews any cord left exposed (last one was roundup), so i've left it on all my cords and cables. i bought 30 feet of it and used about 20.  cable ties and more  
 is it easy to make sure the cable protector fits snugly onto the full length of the cable? the cord that pushed me over the edge was protected all except for 1" on the end and he went right to that. so far that looks like the best product i would be likely to use. i am also considering relocating his home base (food/water and primary litter box) into the living room of my apartment as opposed to my room and shutting the door during the day. i'm also considering getting him a nice friend to keep him company while i'm in class and work from 8 am to 6 pm   
 you can cut it to the length you prefer. it's soft plastic and cuts easily with scissors. for the ones i was afraid he would get at the neck, i cut it a little longer so it would fit over the plug. the diameter is rather large, which is the point. cats don't like to chew on anything a half inch in diameter. if you noticed, they favor long, thin cords like ac adaptors and charge cords.  
 i'm very much in favor of keeping cats indoors at all times unless they have all of their shot and are on a leash and harness...all it takes is one big cat with an attitude, or one big bird of prey, or one wandering dog or any other predator. the world is so large, and kittens and cats are so small...  indoor cats can be very content, if their home is enriched for them. and they can be leash-trained without a lot of trouble, although it does take patience.  i'm going to give you links to a bunch of articles that will make indoors feel like a universe to your kittens, in case you agree, and keep them in!  the five golden rules to bringing an outdoor cat inside how to make your home bigger (at least for your cats) cat trees: 12 designs that will make you go "wow!" 9 grass growing kits that will make your cat happy choosing the right cat toy for your kitten cats and hidden dangers in the home harness and leash training for cats how to make your home and garden safe for your cat   and a few on catios...the best of both worlds! how to keep your cat safe outdoors cat enclosures building a cat enclosure  don't faint! these articles are not long, and they are very easy reads, clear, concise, and full of good stuff!  
 i forgot to come back to this thread but thank you all so much for your input! this is my first time raising my own cats and i'm still trying to shake the ways of how my family raised cats. i got harnesses and leashes for bowie and nox which i am slowly introducing them to so we can peruse the yard without anything to worry about! they still meow to go outside but i'm glad i've stopped letting them out without being leashed up. thanks all!  
 i'm glad to hear that. hopefully in time, they'll love going out on the leashes.   as i mentioned upthread, my family always had indoor/outdoor cats, but things have changed since then, and i wouldn't think of letting a cat out by itself these days.  
 that's what we're here for! i'm happy that our advice helped. any further questions, just find your forum and ask away!  
 this sounds like a vet issue that may warrant medication if the cat otherwise checks out as healthy. you might want to take a video to help the vet understand.  
 i could be wrong, but i think this is more a prozac situation than something a behaviorist can fix. some vets seem really reluctant to prescribe it, like they think they only do pure medical and prescribing prozac isn't in their area.  
 that describes re-directed aggression to a tea! it's scary stuff, i know, hank did it too.   in that example the fur came flying from a running drier, when he focuses on his fur clump in other times, is it also associated with a noise or something that startles him awake when he sees it after getting up from a nap?   
 hey guys,  i started noticing that my 3 mo old kitten smells horrible whenever he is purring and kneading. it smells very sharp and almost acidic.   what could it be?  
 my will pant when we play with the cat dancer or the laser. they stop in a few minutes after i put the toy away although they so breathe faster for a while longer.  
  panting after a good play session with lots of running and jumping is normal the panting stops after a couple of minutes or so after playtime as the heart rate slows down to normal.   
    
 hi! stick with the scent free litter if possible, it's better, especially if it's less dusty. there are lots of toys that could help her self-entertain; food puzzles for cats  20 best interactive cat toys: the ultimate list (2018) | heavy.com  home the ripple rug  also try some music, there's the app relaxmycat, and musicforcats, and kusc . org  you might want to set up a camera so that you can observe what she actually does while you're away.  
 oh, and i found another article for you - sorry, i missed this one lol separation anxiety in cats  
 i wasn’t sure which forum to post this on, as my cat is still alive and well. she is 13 years old now and in good health according to her vet. she currently lives with my parents. i left home over a year ago (though i still live relatively close) and have recently been experiencing an overwhelming amount of what i now know to be called anticipatory grief. i’ve been crying for hours for the past few days about it. i know that time is no longer on our side, and i feel guilty for not being able to spend as much time with her as i would like.  which brings me to my issue/question: should i bring her to my apartment? i’m her favorite person, but she also loves my parents i’m sure. furthermore, she has much more room where she is now; even a screened in porch. my apartment is obviously smaller than the actual house she lives in now.  my parents think she would rather be with me in a smaller living space than without me in a bigger house, especially since she is older and sleeps most of the day anyways. i would also be able to be with her more than my parents can be. with them, she is left alone for approximately 10-12 hours a day whereas i would only be gone for around 4 hours. i don’t know what to do. any advice appreciated. my main concern is the space downgrade and lack of the screened porch. i really don’t want to miss out on spending her last years with her but i want her to be happy.  
 the op didn't say anything about kittens. are you responding to a different post?   
 @war&wisdom - read post #4, including the link to "cat behavior" (which, you will see, is a thread started by the "op") and all will be revealed to you ! .   
    white shadow said: ↑  @war&wisdom - read post #4, including the link to "cat behavior" (which, you will see, is a thread started by the "op") and all will be revealed to you ! .click to expand...  oops, apparently i'm blind. thank you!   
 hey all, thanks for everyone’s responses. i did recently adopt 2 cats, however i wouldn’t dream of making my older cat live with them as she’s proven multiple times that she enjoys being the only pet in the household.  the absence of my older cat would be emotionally hard on my parents as well, who have spent the past 13 years with her too. they had therefore offered to take the kittens as their own, and i take the older cat. this way the younger cats, who have a lot more energy, will have ample amount of space to run and play, and more room for their cat trees and other cat furniture. this is why i did not mention the kittens in my original post — i simply wanted input on the situation presened in which she would, in fact, be the only cat in a smaller space as i know another cat will stress her out.  
 hello! the last uti my guy had, it took him a good 2 weeks to feel completely better. i put a litter box with a puppy pad in it beside some of the places that he was peeing. that at least got him peeing in a box on something that is absorbent and won't track. i removed the box once he was better.   good luck!  
 are the sheets you replaced new ones or the same ones that you washed after she peed on them? if they are the same sheets, i would try another set that she didn't pee on, or buy a new set. ditto with the plastic.   you might want to consider trying to slowly move the litter box away from the futon as well. or, have another box beside the futon as an option for her.   when you said she was given an all clear on the uti - did she have another urine test, or just finished her antibiotics? many times vets give a 'standard' antibiotic for utis without running a urine culture - in addition to the urine test - to further define the specific type of infection. if the infection is of a specific kind, the standard antibiotic will help but won't completely eliminate the infection, and the symptoms can begin to recur pretty quickly.  
 @feebysowner thanks for the reply!! i went out and bought a new set of sheets and a new plastic cover, and threw out the old ones, as well as rearranged our living room so the futon isn't in the same spot-- and yet, florine continues to pee there lol  as for the uti, my vet tested another sample on friday after my cat had finished the meds and she said the infection was completely gone!! so i'm at a loss... i'm going to try removing the boxes from on the futon and putting a new litterbox beside the futon and see how that works, maybe she's decided she no longer likes the location of her old one?  
 that sounds like a great idea!   
 thank you   
 how long has it been? a kitten that young, hopefully the older cat will get over it. an older kitten that jumps all over the big cat trying to play, sometimes the big cat stays stressed by the kitten. i don't know that you need an introduction per se for a kitten that young, or that it would help. however, a kitten should be isolated in a safe room for a few days so it can get used to the house and has somewhere to retreat to if scared. you don't want a scared kitten under an appliance. maybe your past that and it worked out fine; sometimes it does. also, its not necessarily safe for an older cat to play vigorously with a kitten that young -- we had one member post a frankly disturbing video in that regard. doesn't sound like you have that problem, but i wouldn't allow unsupervised time yet.  
 i respectfully disagree. it has been my experience that an introduction period is needed for all cats or kittens. we have nine cats and occasionally foster. some of our cats adjust quickly, others do not. an introduction period helps ease the stress when a new cat of kitten arrives.   our most recent cat is silas, who was newly 5-weeks when we found him. he was kept completely separate until he went to the vet and was checked over. after that, as always, he started introducing him. within about four days, two of the eight were okay with him. we would let him play with those two cats but kept the others at a safe distance. over the next week/week and a half, four more were okay enough with him that we felt it safe for him to go exploring. the two remaining cats kept their distance, giving him a wide berth.   he is now almost 10 weeks old and has free access to the house. the two reluctant cats are slowly letting him closer to them, but they either hiss or run away if he gets too close. (one stays about a foot away from him, while the other is okay as long as he does not touch her or try to play.) both smell him while he is sleeping and are okay, which is a good sign.they do not, however, growl or go after him.     artnj said: ↑  also, its not necessarily safe for an older cat to play vigorously with a kitten that young -- we had one member post a frankly disturbing video in that regarclick to expand...  that is horrible! i am hoping that they posted it to get help for the situation and not because they thought it was funny.   
 hi guys. i'm on at my wits end. i adopted a second, younger kitty recently and i love him to bits except for one behavior. i'm desperately trying to finish grad school which means i need to write a 40 page exit paper before the end of the month. the kitty is very affectionate and long story short, he loves to jump on my laptop while i'm working on it. i've already had two scares where i thought he might have cost me a shot of graduating this semester due to jumping on the laptop.  i get playing with him to drain his energy and i do do that. but i also don't want to play with him when he starts doing this (typically he'll jump on the desk like 10 times in a row and i'll immediately place him down each time) so that he doesn't feel "rewarded" for jumping on my laptop.   any thoughts/tips?  
 if you need some uninterrupted time, do you have a bathroom or other place you can place the cat while you are working. or can you take the laptop and work elsewhere like your local coffee shop or library?   you can also try setting up a spot near where you are working where kitty can be near you but not on you. by a window might distract him enough.  
 i've thought about putting him in the bathroom or the bedroom, but it would effectively cut off the apartment for the other cat as well due to how this is set up. my work desk is about 5 feet away from a window and i have a kitty stand next to it that he loves to sleep in/look out the window, but when i'm working at the desk he loves to come up to me.  i know its an attention thing though. if i live the laptop on the desk he'll try to step on it there. if i literally put the laptop on my lap, he'll try to jump on my lap. part of the reason i'd prefer to come home to work rather than a coffee shop is that i work full time and then have night classes, so i do want to be around the kitties when i "have free time". i just don't want him walking on the laptop.  
 hi, yes she is!   
 how sweet they are! they were so lucky your mom found them. i agree they got off to a rough start and are fearful. i think having so many other animals in the house is a factor. they have each other but you did say the one cat bullied them now and then. that's not great for them.  i tell you -- i have had the same cat for 13 years now and she won't come to me except at night in bed. otherwise she doesn't want to be touched. i have come to accept that is who she is but i wish it were different.  
 i have two rescued cats that i have had indoors for over two years. it is normal for them to go into hiding as they are still very timid. they do it less and less as they get more and more comfortable. loud noises can bother them a lot so if they are still doing construction work in your neighborhood the noise from it may stress them out. i have four cats at home and two of them stress out easy.  the following two articles on this site are good to read through.  potential stressors in cats - the ultimate checklist  six surefire strategies to reduce stress in cats  they are beautiful cats, you and your mother are awesome people for rescuing and continuing to care for them. i think it is great that you want them to be as comfortable as possible in your home.  
 i have two rescues - one rescued at just a few weeks and hand-raised, the other rescued at 4 months. the elder, after 6 years with me, is still very skittish and hides all the time. the younger loves everyone! all are different, just like kids. only patience has helped get the older to become less and less afraid.  
          
 some cats are just really hard to play with, i definitely sympathize. you might have to play a little pet detective until you see what naturally catches his attention outside the window, and try and mimic it. our 7 yr old kitty, gohan, never really played interactively much. he has a few cheap little rattle mice he bats around by himself, but as far as interaction he wouldn't usually play.  over the years, we found what gets him interested. he seems to like "ground prey" - sting toys that flow over the ground like ribbons, or little worms. he doesn't like it moving too fast, and any distraction around ruins it.  another thing is da bird toy - it is not the same as other feather and stick toys. whirl it quickly through the air so it makes a fluttery sound, and then go slower so fiddle stix can stalk it. change tempos from fast to slow, try and mimic a prey animal as much as you can.  in the end, some cats are almost impossible to play with. if you can't see to engage him him exercise, maybe switching his food to a low-carb kibble or wet food will let him maintain a healthy weight even if he's inactive. good luck, let us know if something starts working!  
 hello and welcome to tcs.  congrats on the adoption of fiddle stixs.  she's adorable.   sounds like you tried just about everything plaything idea you can think of. but have you tried a piece of toilet paper under the bathroom door?  
 my daughter absolutely is in hog heaven! fiddle stix has grown quite attached to me so i'm working on finding things to get her as attached with my little one also.  the organization i adopted fs from is very strict. she came with all of her adoption paper work even back from the shelter she was found at. she has checked out pristine from 2 different vets. at the same time, i've wondered if her vision isn't a little off, possibly. i'm having that checked into soon.  she is a ball of purrs all the time! she even sits there calmly and let's me trim her nails and file them smooth, as to not injure herself scratching/grooming. coolest cat ever!  her diet consists of a quarter of a cup of science diet indoor blend in the evening that she snacks on through out the day and 2 spoonfuls of indoor wet food in the morning. she is naturally a large cat to begin with. she measures 16 inches from between her ears to the base of her tail. her weight seems to have stabilized. las check up she weighed 11 pounds.  lately she's been doing the "spook run" through the house randomly. so i feel she's exercising herself without my involvement  she's chasing something imaginary right now up and down the hallway. silly kitty.  i think my next move is going to find a small remote control car to attach a rubber bug to so she can chase it.  i'll keep everyone updated!   
 she has free roam of the house, finally. she doesn't really sleep in the bed with either of us. she likes to sleep behind the cracked door. she wakes me up several times a night wanting to be loved on. this has gotten better since i started filling her bowl with dry food at night instead of in the morning.  this is also another reason i'm trying to tire her out during the day.  fs does the same thing where she spook runs, bounces off the dogs elevated bed, off the speaker, off the bookcase, then taking off down the hallway. it cracks us up everytime. we've nicknamed her parkour kitty!   
 hi everyone, i'm in need of advice regarding my cat's toileting issues. she's 8 years old, and i rescued her about 4 months ago. the first few weeks i had her she was perfect with her litterbox habits. as time went on, however, she began pooping in various places outside the box-- sometimes in her bed, on the couch blankets, on the floor, or under furniture if i'm in the room, i guess so i can't see her in the act. i took her to the vet because i had read that this could be a sign of an underlying medical condition, but they assured me that nothing was wrong and that it was just anxiety related. i've tried everything i can think of to make her stop. i've gotten a felliway defuser to make her more calm, i've tried increasing the amount of times i clean out the litterbox per day, i've tried changing her diet, all to no avail. i'm quite desperate at this point because cleaning up feces off of various surfaces in my house multiple times per day is beyond frustrating and probably not so great for one's health either.   a quick note on her poop: it is greenish-tan and soft, but not liquidy like diarrhea. it leaves a bit of residue on the surface where it's picked up from. i generally find it in multiple spots, like she started the bowl movement in one spot and ended in another, almost like a trail.  
 hi!  i'm thinking out loud here, but can you go back to the beginning? can you use the same litter she'd gotten used to at wherever she was before, and the same food? is there anything she is coming in to contact with in your living space that she could be ingesting? can you try some low volume music, either the app relax my cat, or kusc.org?  
 is she an only cat and an only pet? any changes to your household including new furnishings or new people? how about outside cat visiting windows? i wonder about these things because a cat pooping where they sleep is pretty unusual. makes me think there might be something she is fearful of that is making her not get up or use her box. i would also set out litter boxes in every room she is currently pooping in.  
 thanks for the reply! yes, she is my only pet. i live in an apartment complex, and i have seen a couple of wild cats running around the property, but i live on the third floor, so she doesn't come in contact with them. do you think maybe she smells them? about a month after adopting her, i had a new roommate move in. a couple weeks later, the pooping began. i have thought that it might be correlated, but the problem is only getting worse, and my cat is pretty used to my roommate by now. also, i did recently get new furniture (a couch and coffee table) but she has never shown any aversion to them. she likes to sleep on the couch and under the coffee table. the thing that confuses me most is why she would continue to pee in the litterbox, but refuse to poop there?  
 yes, i've definitely considered bringing a sample to the vet. i wish i had done it when i brought her there the first time.  
 hi there i'm in need of some desperate help with our cat. we have a desexed male who is 7 months old. i have owned cats all my life and never come across behaviour like this, it is starting to become very frustrating as this has been going on for a couple of months. we got him when he was 5 weeks old and he was desexed at 5 months, which i thought would tame the behaviour but it hasn't done anything. i have listed the issues below.  # he is always jumping on to the kitchen bench licking any plates etc that are left in the sink, or eating scrap food only to vomit it up all over the house.  # when we are cooking dinner or eating dinner he is constantly jumping up and trying to eat our food.   # he is an indoor cat and any time you open a door he sees it as an escape and literally bolts down the road and it takes forever to catch him, he also runs up all the screen doors in the house ripping them to pieces  # just recently he has started pooping and urinating in the bath tub and kitchen sink, at first i thought it may be a uti, but he isn't in pain or acting any differently than normal. he has a litter tray that he has used perfectly from day dot.   # he isn't overly affectionate and would rather be off by himself  we have tried a spray bottle with water which he actually likes, i constantly get him off the bench and say no but he jumps straight back up. i feel like he is constantly locked in the laundry as we can't control him. i also have two very young children and some of his behaviour is starting to become very unhygienic around the kids.   any help would be greatly appreciated thank you  jessica  
 ummmm have you tried:  1) locking him up in a room every time you are going to eat/prepare a meal?  2) cleaning all dishes & pans before releasing him from his cat room? 3) maybe feeding him his dinner in his room while you are cooking dinner? 4) after 3-6 months of being locked in his room for every meal, try letting him out for dinner time. every time he gets on the counters or dining room table, he is calmly placed in his room until all the food is put away. it takes time but you can train him. if you decide to train him be sure to give him a cat tree or bar stool to watch you prepare the food but not be in the food. give him a spot in the dining room table. place him there, give him a treat. if he gets on the counter or dining room table, place him in the room.   it sounds like he is in a bad habit of counter surfing & stealing dinner. it also sounds like his humans have a bad habit of leaving food out. this answer seems so obvious i'm wondering if this is a real question. on the off chance this is a real question: a 2-step plan for keeping your cats off the kitchen counters  
 hello and welcome to tcs. sorry you're having behavioral issues with your kitten. some of it, i think, might be just young cat energy and curiosity, which he'll hopefully outgrow.  though the fact that you got him at only 5 weeks, does suggest he didn't learn "cat etiquette" from his mom, as mentioned in the following article: how old do kittens have to be to leave their mother?  teach your kitten how to play nice : the humane society of the united states  at dinner-time, i would continue to put him in the laundry room until the kitchen is cleaned up and everything put away.   the biggest concern, i think, is the new habit of peeing/pooping outside the litter box. how many litter boxes do you have? if only one, maybe try getting a 2nd one. some cats are weird and like to pee in one box, and poop in another.   tcs has a lot of article on the topics of your concern. i'll post the links below:  how to solve litterbox problems in cats: the ultimate guide litterbox problems? here's why you should call your vet inappropriate peeing, spraying, toy obsession and leg and hand nipping spraying: when your cat uses urine to mark territory  how to set healthy boundaries for your cat cats and discipline don't mix  get off! how to discourage your cat from jumping on counters 5 reasons to never spray water on your cat  you, your cat and stress potential stressors in cats - the ultimate checklist  
 hello  i have a female brown tabby (guelah) with overstimulation which has unfortunately been getting worse long-term. it all started when she was pregnant a few years ago. she got attacked by our neighbor's cat while pregnant and just turned on my only other female orange cat who were basically sisters and best friends since they were together for years. for a long time now it has been manageable, but she is just so insanely freaked out by my orange cat who still doesn't really know how to handle the situation. if the orange cat is in the room or if guelah even makes eye contact with her, she starts growling and hissing and turns into a monster. they have their own food bowls, litter boxes, cat trees, etc as suggested, but they share the whole house. do i have to start separating them? go to the vet again? the last vet suggested prozac which kind of threw me for a loop. she is one of those cats if you start petting her in the wrong areas she will turn pretty quickly and get mean (was never like that before the pregnancy). still, i have noticed increased agitation lately. they are indoor/outdoor cats and both spayed. i have also noticed the guelah has been really scared to stay outside lately and just runs back in. should i start keeping her indoors permanently? maybe another cat messed with her?   i am just at loss on what to do. could use any help or suggestions. or a solid vet suggestion in cleveland or akron ohio that deals with cat behavior. i love both these cats with all my heart and would not want to see them split up. it would be a miracle to ever get the two cats to lay next to each other.   
 well i just woke up this morning to my other orange cat constantly using the litter box and having blood in her urine :-( so i am calling to see if i can double up cats now. you will see another post from me shortly about the orange one. i will keep you updated on what the vets say on guelahs temperament. hopefully everything gets resolved  
 . @somanykids - welcome to tcs! what are the (approximate) ages of the four cats, and how recently was the newcomer neutered? .  
 so how did it work out with barry then? is he ok now? i love that you got to adopt him.   
 thanks all for the encouragement and advice. i agree that the number one priority is to be absolutely sure my current cat chilli doesn't get sick!   right now i live about an hour away from the shelter, but i have decided to move to that city to take a new job in august. so at that time, if nothing else happens before then, i can at least visit her and the shelter may feel more comfortable placing her as a foster with me once i live closer to them.   @duncanmac it's so great to hear that barry has done so well.   
 ps... just for closure... many months later... i adopted her after all     
 i can't put into words how happy i am for both of you. i remember working with duncan (our first cat) trying to get him to behave and be less bitey and thinking about barry and how he would help with the manners situation. and when we finally decided that a second cat was the solution, my wife had to remind me as we walked into the store, months later, that barry might not be there anymore.  feral, shy or "problem" cats can be a lot of work to get close to, but once they decide that you are their person, the bond is incredible. barry shows me his belly every other day (look but don't touch), and can be an absolute mush demanding pets, purring like a motorboat and drooling. i wish you all of that and more.  
 baby girl is 99% sweet, 1% sassy. if i tell her off, she'll sit there with her upper body leaning back, ears pinned and eyes in irritated slits, then slowly give me a half-hazard slap with no claws then turn and run off.  it's like she knows she shouldn't hit me but she has to anyway. i think it's hilarious.  
 as usual, rubysmama said exactly what i was going to say. my guess would be that the niece is extremely close to the speculated pet at home, more willing to have the pet climb all over her than the sister in law, and also possibly not as good as the sister-in-law at washing her hands/face after being licked. if that is what it is, you can probably fix it by having her change clothes and wash her hands before coming over.  it could also just be that the niece is loud and rambunctious. it doesn't take much sometimes, and some cats don't like some kids. my cats don't like my mother because she has a walker. although avoidance and not attack would be more likely if this is the cause.  
 i've heard giving cats treats when they meet new cats can help them associate good things with each other. play with them in the same room, with toys where the cat won't hurt you(throw ping-pong ball, balls of paper, use fishing pole type toy, etc.). the cat might feel like the kitten is taking over their territory, is there any way you can isolate the kitten to just one room, while the other cat is adjusting? maybe try changing clothes/washing hands before playing with the cat, hopefully she will let you near again. you can also try just leaving things that smell like the kitten around the house with treats on them, or near her food dish.  how long will that cat be with you?  
 yes they’re in separated rooms, the thing is we have one room in the house dedicated to cats (the litterbox is there, toys, food etc) and they need to learn how to interact, the cat i’m babysitting will stay for anoher week or two   
 no, i didn't mean anything by asking if they were sharing a litter box. i just thought that if they were (and, they are), then at least that is a good sign. their not getting along in other aspects is not affecting that area - and, it could have.  
 guide on this topic here:  how to successfully introduce cats: the ultimate guide  it is a really good guide, but it isn't a book, so feel free to drop back in and let us know how its going so far, and what we think that means for progression and such.  before you get started, either get vet records from the coworker or take the cat in right off. you don't want to wait, because you dont want to make your cat sick, and the stress of the vet visit could create problems if done during the middle of, or shortly after, the introduction process. if the 6 month old isn't spayed yet, you can talk to the vet about the best time to do it. my thought would be before you start the introduction process to, again, not have stress interrupt a fragile process.  with cats this young, they are often ready to start playing and being buds almost immediately, so you can see how its going and adjust. there is no fixed time table, and excellent chance things would be fine if you ignored the guide and just put them together (not that i'm suggesting you do that).  
 hiding a bit is ok! good luck and keep us posted!  
 so i come home and my resident kitty definitely knows new kitty is in the spare bathroom. i go to put her in the bedroom and i go in to check on new kitty and she hisses at me and has been meowing. i go and check on my resident kitty and her tail is shaking and just freaked out there is someone new there is obvious tension going on.  
 hello jmiller, i just finished introducing my cats to each other! i have a 4 month old female kitten and a 1 year old male cat. start by letting them smell each other. rub socks on the new kitten and give it to the resident kitten. there may be some hissing but this is normal. don't let them see each other face to face until a week or so. let them exchange smells. put the new kitten in a safe room. switch the resident cat into the kittens room and move the kitten into the resident's room for about 30 minutes a day so they can smell each other without seeing each other. let them see each other through cracks of the door. it took my cat a while to accept my kitten but now they play all the time and sleep together too! best of luck   
 @nekosmom17: welcome to tcs. thanks for sharing your cat introduction procedure. i hope you'll stick around the site and tell us more about your cats, and join in on the cat discussions on all the forums. we have a new cats on the block where you can introduce yourself and your 2 cats.   @jmiller1011: don't feel like you're in over your head yet! it's only been 2 days. i've never introduced cats, but from what i've read it is most successful when the slow introduction procedure is followed.  
 i think a bit of hissing is normal. let's see how things go today.  
 here’s a very nice article that tcs wrote on this topic: separation anxiety in cats  
 my cat was given jackson galaxy spirit of essence. it seemed to help.  
 i think yes, the kitten needs to be able to become familiar with the rest of the house, and i'm with you - your little one is indicating that at least as far as he's concerned, he's afraid of the situation. maybe play some low volume classical music, kusc.org or the app relax my cat, it'll help both cats calm down. also, maybe remove that water fountain (or give it to the kitten in its room) and have simple bowls, at different heights and locations, in the house.   
 more interactive play and emotionally soothing places like window ledges may help. also check to see if there are outside sources of stress ( other cats animals, loud construction sounds, etc. some cats will redirect their fear and aggression from that onto the nearest target ( you or another cat or dog.)  with that said, it sounds like status aggression, rather than redirected. one thing that can help with status aggression is clicker training ( it helps the cat to see you as a benevolent overlord, so to speak.) other methods of gently reinforcing your bond and dominance can help, too.  in severe cases, many cats respond to medication (kitty prozac),, so if you've tried everything else, you can talk to your vet to see if they believe it might be appropriate for your cat (it may not be, given the fact that yout cat has some health issues)  
 thanks for the replies! the blanket idea is definitely worth a shot, i'm looking for anything that can snap him out of it.  clicker training also sounds like a good idea. there are no other animals but there's always some amount of nighttime construction around here, it doesn't seem like he's responding directly to it though. and i'm definitely hesitant to medicate him, he's on enough meds as is.  the shelter did tell me he had a "godfather complex" when i asked if he would be good with a dog in the future; i guess i know what they meant now!  
 so, again, you'll want to double-check with your vet.  i'm giving some extra info here, in case you are now or will be later, dealing with weight loss.  fortiflora is a probiotic but works better as an enticement. there is also tummyworks, and animal essentials plant enzymes and probiotic.  regarding food, see if your vet will allow something here that might help;  try making this; tent test for dehydration and home-made pedialyte recipe - the daily kitten  also, try making one of these; kitten glop recipes - supplementing cats and kittens with nutritious formula you make at home: presented by bengal cat breeder foothill felines. --this website has a number of kitten glop recipes, with ingredients that you may very well have in your house.  for toppers/enticements, these can be used on their own or combined with food. also, if you heat the food a little it helps to increase the smell - stir it so there aren't any hot spots from the microwave. or you could warm up water, about a tablespoon, and add that to canned food. a small glass works to stir it all up.  chicken, beef or ham flavored baby food such as gerber stage 2 - make sure there is no garlic or onions in the ingredients  tuna and/or the juice, a low mercury/low/no sodium brand is called safecatch  salmon, mackerel  sardines (make sure there are no bones)  boiled cut up chicken or turkey with no seasonings  canned kitten food any brand - it's usually smelly. see if it's eaten on its own, then maybe mix it in or put on top  try mixing in kitten milk replacer - there are recipes on the internet or store bought  fish, tuna or bbq flavored canned wet food (i personally have never seen bbq flavors, but...)  lickable cat treats or pouch treat 'gravy' poured over the food  kitten glop (recipes in website link above) bonito flakes fortiflora fish oil green beans, asparagus mushed up  goat milk, or no lactose cow milk whole cooked eggs (the white must always be cooked) or raw egg yolk now and then broth with no salt and no garlic or onion or seasonings of any kind there are also commercial toppers, applaws is a brand that can work well as a topper   some good treats would be freeze dried purebites, orijen, meowtinis, meowables  there are also lickimats that you could spread types of soft food onto, even plain unflavored yogurt, and even freeze it. licking something can help a cat to feel better emotionally the lickimat - food puzzles for cats shredded cheddar cheese chamomile tea, made from the little bags only, a couple cooled teaspoons a couple times a day in water or food, can help calm a stressed cat   
 hi all,  we seem to have people from all over on this site.  i'm wondering if anyone else has a highland lynx breed cat?  i love this cat.  it's such a unique breed. she has a lot of characteristics like a dog (fetching, sleeping by my feet, running to the window to get the scoop on any possible intruders, has her own pet stuffed animal, somewhat fearless of strangers) and some other interesting traits like she will not back down when playing (she will run after me and tackle my legs if i walk away from engaging her) or when she wants something, and she must dominate my other cat when she feels like it, even if it is just getting the best spot on the bed.  anyway, my real question is, if anyone else has this breed, is she loves to exercise and has lots of stamina.  does anyone have any clever play activities they use?  my cat loves chasing the red laser dot, to the point of addiction.  as soon as she hears the noise of the chain on the laser pointer jingling, she comes running and demands the dot.  so funny.  she will run full gallop from one end of the apartment to the other until she gets winded.  so, that's one solution, but i'm looking for any other good suggestions.   this is a picture of bigfoot (she's polydactyl) with her 'pet' stuffed doggie she cuddles with.  she was trying to keep me from going on a trip by invading my suitcase.  lol!  thanks in advance for any suggestions on exercise!     
 perhaps because they are a new breed, not yet accepted for championship. tica has them as highlander and a preliminary new breed.  i'm sure you're breeder would have lots of tips on how best to play with her. my cats love teasers, dabird and other cats to chase around.    
 here you go, bigperm20, this is a funny pic showing her back feet.  yup, 7 toes. i call them 'launching pads' because they are so big.     
 cool! bigfoot is quite fitting then. does she ever walk upright? she may be responsible for all of those yetti sightings   
 hahaha!  funny!  she only walks upright when in search of bacon in the kitchen. her bacon senses are very keen.  lol!    
 i looked at several different breeders websites the other day and many of these kittens were listed with "docked tails". i had never heard of such a practice myself but that's what was being done.  
 unfortunately most breeders dock the tails of this breed (and other cat breeds), although they are often born with natural bobtails too. we do not dock tails of our highland lynx/highlanders, as we like them however they come and do not believe in removing parts of their body. people who show their cats also dock because in certain breeds of cat (just like dogs) a certain length of tail is desirable.   also when you see the word dock, it always means the tail was cut off at a very young age......if it is a naturally short tail (nst) they often cost more.  
 have you heard of a breeder named "rottins" in troy alabama? they have some beautiful kittens. i would like to know what you think about them if you know them.   
 she is beautiful    mine loooooooooooooooooooves the laser!   if i don't put a stop to it he would burn himself out playing with that laser. plus he does have a very very overly active buddy lol  so she helps on burning his energy.  
 first, welcome to tcs.   if your kitten did not come with pedigree papers from a reputable breeder, my understanding is that she can't be registered. all my cats have been moggies, so i have no personal experience.  
 absolutely adorable! he'll bring you many years of love and entertainment!  
 completely normal behavior for a mighty little hunter. cats, especially kittens, will get really into their games and when they see a human nearby growl to warn them off of their "kill" or they are growling at their "prey" directly. either way, growling in play and at toys is a sign that your kitten is really into his play.  
 yeah, it is pretty normal, though it is a bit on the aggressive end of things, so, like others have said, you'll want to be careful when you take the toy away.  
 he would probably really enjoy a good wand toy, such as da bird. that lets you play with him, without your hands becoming targets. it also lets you wear his little cat fanny out a few times a day!  
 hi! i adopted my 3 month old kitten a week ago. i do understand this is a big change for her new place ,new people. i put her in a room of her own to get use to the house and noises. she is always hiding though. if my kids pick her up from one of her hiding spots she doesn’t run from us she will sit in our laps, purr and love on us for as long as we let her . she is a super sweet kitten. she is eating and using the liter box at night which is good. i have used treats to get her to come out from the couch but once they are gone she goes back under. my question is , after reading a bunch , sites say that cats would have come around by now . i’m worried she will always be a hider. the last cat i owned years ago walked straight into my house like he owned it , she’s completely different from my last one . any advice on how to make her more comfortable ? or do i just let her be , and is it encouraging this hiding behavior by petting and loving on her while shes in hiding ? thanks!!  
 i kind feel the same about just letting.them.out but my wife is so worried about everything which does not help especially.the old cat. she gets worked up when we are.  i also think that that one being locked up for weeks doesnt do that cat any good.   
 we had a good day today. both xats co existed the whole day mostly. they even sleot near esch other.  the problem is still my wife. she worries at every single move the old cat makes. she cant let.it go. any hiss paw anything she is freaking out which makes the entire thing worse.   there as been no blood, squealing, death fights. just a hiss, run, swat, leave.  
 yes, he was neutered before we got him thankfully. and thank you for the article - i guess i played myself trying to expand mitch's horizons haha  
 hi. he's 7 months old - no time for sleeping 12-16 hours a day!! lol! when you say lots of vertical spaces - ones that he uses already, or are available to him but not necessarily used? if he doesn't use them, pick him up and put him on them until he finds one or more he likes and goes back to himself. or, if you can possibly find the space for a small cat tree - that might help take the place of the trees outside that it looks like he enjoys climbing, especially if placed by a window.  
 bite him back.  just kidding!!!  what about putting a couple small treats around for him to stay busy finding while you quickly prepare the main course? not a whole handful or he might get full... but 2-3 strategically spaced apart so he has to go "find" them for a minute of distraction? or a little catnip if he responds to that...  
 your reaction of yelling was spot on. when cats use teeth or claws a loud sudden noise (or hiss) to startle and get their attention followed by ignoring them is the right answer. don't hurry up with his food or give him a treat because that's rewarding him for bad behavior. if anything hold back the food for a ten count.   repeat the loud noise (or hiss) and ignoring him for at least ten second any time he bites or claws. he will get the idea very quickly as that is what mom and older cats do to misbehaving kittens.  
 thanks! i'm going to try that. it makes so much sense to hiss like a cat, in his own language haha   
 i will do that!   
 if a slap or two and hissing is all that the older do, and everyone is using their litterbox and not hiding, i honestly would be satisfied with that. thing might improve as the years younger mature- they are still really kittens at one - but even if they don’t, no one sounds really unhappy. i just wouldn’t feel badly if they don’t become friends. some times the age gap is just too large.  
 jen is right -- sounds like the older ones think the young ones are a pita when they start flying around, chasing and pouncing. and, once in a while, they forcibly insist on some respect. pretty normal. often it only gets better when the youngsters slow down. i'm guessing you'll get closer to toleration, and while there may still be some growling at times, it should be a lot less, and you may even have some small victories too -- maybe some grooming, a short play session now and then.  don't forget to play with the young ones. as they get older, and their energy decreases, playing may actually make a difference. (when they are young it is like trying to drain the ocean with a thimble.)  you could also watch a "my cat from hell" or two. i'll give you the cheat sheet -- he recommends watching where they fight, and adding some elevated cat space there. meaning cat trees unless your a carpenter or have money to burn. there may be something to it...even when my current two didn't get along hardly at all, the older one would sometimes enjoy a short play session with the younger when she had the high ground (a chair). high ground seems to make cats feel safe.  
 thanks for all the replies unfortunately they fight around me. when i get home from work they swarm around me so then they are all excited and too close to one another. my husband is retired so they don’t care about him, lol. in the morning they have a little problem cause about midnight my husband puts the little guys in basement so i can sleep because they won’t let me. i’m up by four and the basement is nice and finished but when they first see each other again they go. at it a little we try and keep the little ones up all night when we can but....  
 total situation the big guys have a lot of places to go and the little ones know kind of not to mess with them in their space. i guess i’m just over anxious. the little ones actually want the big guys to like them and walk up to them and roll over and make little meeping noises with little success unfortunately  
 kittens dont really need a special reason to pee on a bed, its the #1 spot for an "accident" by a huge margin. keep the kitty off the bed for several weeks, and if you can't, put the blanket in the closet during the day and keep any sheets tucked in. must be nothing they can kneed. still a good idea to clean the box of course, just saying that may not have been the reason.  how old is your older ragdoll?  
 my 3 month old kitten tammy has started hissing and growling and panting when she gets a hold of the toy end of a wand toy. if i don't let go of it or i offer resistance it seems like she gets mad or frustrated and she'll hiss and growl and pant and her ears will go back. she clamps her teeth into the toy, tries to walk away with it, and doesn't let go. i can pull the wand away and try to get it out of her grip but she'll just come along with it. if i raise the wand up she'll actually just end up hanging in the air with the toy. she only just started doing this today. i thought it was just the one toy that affected her like this. so i tried another one, but the same thing happened. it's a little scary to be honest lol. anyway is this normal? should i just allow her to have the toy at some point and not pull it away from her to give her that satisfaction? my other kitten doesn't do this nor do my friends' cats and i'm a first-time cat owner so i'm not sure if this is to be expected. also i apologize for any run-on sentences. i'm using voice to text to write this because i'm using my other hand to to play with the wand toy with the kittens lol  edit : upon further observation it seems that that it is in fact the one toy that she reacts to the most strongly. it's just some strips of yellow and orange felt that i tied together on one end like a tassel and i tied one end of that tassel to a string and i was waving it around and every time i do it she starts growling and hissing and she gets really intense.  
 <dup post>  
  agreed agreed agreed!!! i would stop approaching her all together and do your best to be the delivery person of all things food, and make sure she sees you do it. touch the rim of the bowl/plate and leave your scent there. hand over the food, and walk away. it sounds counter productive but i wouldn't be surprised if trying to fix this is making her feel pushed and hence the peeing thing.  if she approaches or happens into the room you're in, say "hello" and go back to what you are doing, but i would stop trying to reach out and pet her now. some cats don't like petting at all, and some don't like it from people they don't consider theirs, but once that person is one of their own, you can't pry them off you if your life depended on it. i don't like hugging people i barely know, and if someone i don't know well tries to give me a hug or touches my arm or something, i find it creepy even though they probably (i hope) mean no harm!)  another option if it's possible (not sure if this house belongs to you or not?) is installing some wall shelves so she has more "vertical" access. a lot of cats kind of mellow out if they are able to have space in the house that's upwards, cats like being up high and it would be a good place to call her own.   
 i would ignore it unless it turns into true ow squeals. you can do what i do with my foster kittens. when the big one gets to rough with the runt, i distract them from each other with a wand toy. it works.... thank god!  
 whenever i play a game and start losing, i usually growl a little, too.  this is cat speak, it's normal and good and the 5 month old sounds like she understands it very well and backs off when the little one starts telling her "too rough."  remember, cats can't speak english (very well anyway) and won't be able to say "excuse me, that thing you just did hurt a bit", they just growl to tell the other cat "ow, that hurt".  since your 5 month old is taking the message and disengaging (instead of biting/playing harder), i'd say you've got a good, well balanced pair of kittens that will more than likely be life long friends.   
 my 1 year old cat maynard is a huge pig. he always wants food and eats all his wet food and almost all his dry food in one sitting. and he always wants whatever i'm eating. i have to be so careful with him and literally count his calories because i do not want him to be overweight.  i got a new 4.5 month old kitten last week named katie. her and maynard are already getting along ok (under supervision at the moment), he hasn't yet been aggressive towards her and loves to play with her. she is not a big eater at all and loves to nibble on her food. i have tried feeding them together but once maynard is all done his food he will growl at katie and try to eat all of hers as well. keeping them separate during meal times isn't really an option since katie appears to be a nibbler.  any advice on what to do?? i see this becoming a problem and am concerned.  
 i have seen pics of them before, but i have never actually seen one. they are beautiful kitties!  
 i have seen them at a cat show. they are still under pretty heavy development and not many breeders are yet involved with the breeds creation. very cool looking cats though but they have their work cut out for them to get away from the typical mackerel tabby look.  
 this is an old thread, but i was wondering if maybe someone in here knows a bit more about the toygers now, some years later? do anyone in here own one? how is the temperament? very active or medium? are they very vocal or is that more like a medium too? i have a ragdoll and i'm considering getting a toyger from a breeder in denmark (i live in norway). it would be interesting if anyone in here had toygers and would like to tell me more about these beautiful creatures :-) do you think a ragdoll and a toyger would cope well?  
 a good breeder should be able to help match you with a kitten. kittens go through a lot of behavioral changes, so when you are looking at young kittens, it's not always obvious which will have the temperament you are looking for. for example, from certain bloodlines, i've seen quite a few shy baby kittens grow up to be the most affectionate, sweet, and people-oriented out of the litter... while the most outgoing and friendly babies from the same litters grew up to be dominant and independent, with less interest in people. so, it helps if the breeder has plenty of experience with how kittens from their specific bloodlines tend to develop as they mature. find a good breeder who pays attention to matching kittens with the right homes.  
 @lutece thank you for the info; i'll have to start researching breeders.   
 hi everyone, i'm new here and i desperately need some help.   my husband i adopted a cat from a shelter about two months ago. she'd been very recently spayed and all her shots were up to date. we were told she was a year a half old, transported by the shelter in ma from a kill shelter in tn where she had been surrendered. we took her to a vet for a wellness exam and distemper vaccine. our vet said she was in great health, all adult teeth had come in, but he was dubious about her age, he said she was eight or nine months old, at best. also, she had had her rabies shot here in ma, so she couldn't have been transported from tn as they wouldn't have allowed it if she hadn't had the rabies vaccine. we were okay with her being younger than we though and she was in good health so, what could go wrong?   for about two weeks she was a delight. she has a crazy hoarse hungry meow, she doesn't mind being petted, and slept at the end of our bed. then, the biting started. she doesn't bite us. but, she bites everything else in our small apartment. i discovered deep puncture holes in all my furniture. armchair. sofa. new faux leather desk chair. so, i started putting towels on chair arms and a moving blanket went over the desk chair. over the past month and half she has put deep puncture holes all over a sports bra (ruined), backs of sneakers, leather bench, back of the sofa, basically anything that isn't something she should be biting on.  i took to the internet and forums like this. i've read dozens upon dozens of articles about this behavior. she has more chew toys than i can count, two corrugated cardboard scratchers (that she bites a lot), two cat trees, a window perch, and a new cat condo. we've tried playing with her for half an hour at a time with some breaks. she loves it, but it hasn't deterred her. in fact, it seems to wind her up even more before go to bed. i have two different kinds of bitter spray, which seems to have helped a little. i thought maybe she was stressed and tried rescue remedy pet, but that has zero effect on her. i'm at the point now where we have to cover our sofa with heavy plastic floor runner after i discovered holes all over them. it's absurd and i hate that it has come to this. this morning i found she had bitten hard into a towel that is currently covering the top/back of the sofa. i know we're lucky in that she stays away from cords or hard things, but week after week of destruction is wearing on me.  other than this behavior she is a perfectly sweet cat. she snoozes with us, is very playful, and a very enthusiastic eater. i have no idea if she was weaned too early or if this is a new behavior (i suspect it is not). my husband and i are both out of the apartment for up to nine hours a day for work. a lot of this damage happens when we can't see her. either we're not at home or we're asleep. but i'm at the point where i'm considering returning her to the shelter, which i know is not ideal, but i can't keep waiting for her to ruin the next thing. i've been agonizing over this for a few weeks now and we're fighting a lot about this issue.  has anyone successfully stopped destructive biting? thanks for reading this short novel.   
 thanks, feebysowner! i've read all of those, believe me when i tell you that i've read every article i can get my grubby, little hands on!  
 my kitten is about 7 months old. she doesn't chew on quite as much stuff, but she does like to chew. when i leave and at night, i close her in to our bedroom so she doesn't have access to as much. mine particularly likes to chew on plastic like the bread bag, and shoe laces, even the hard plastic ends. it isn't too destructive here so i haven't tried to curb it too much, but distracting her seems to work the best. her favorite actual toys to chew on are her kong kickeroo, a little bunny that "makes real mouse noises" when it is bat around, and she will often chase ping pong balls. oh and she used to love empty toilet paper tubes and balls of paper, they can be hit around as well as chewed on. she doesn't like to chew on other toys designated as "chew toys", so maybe try some others? i know every cat has different preferences but finding some kind of toy that they like to chew on is probably a good start. good luck, let me know if you find something that works!  
 yes she was spayed at around five months.  
 when it's been going on this long i think the best option is medication. sometimes it only has to be given for a limited period, just long enough to get their brain chemistry back on track and break the negative habits. there's no reason to be reluctant to use meds if necessary .  
 i honestly think you’re probably right. i just am very wary of medication myself and try to avoid it if possible. but i don’t think it is possible anymore. i considered going the cbd route but it’s quite costly. my moms boyfriend has a cat that has greatly benefitted from kitty prozac and he keeps telling me to try it. i was just hoping it wouldn’t go that far.   
 freya is on "kitty prozac", and it is great. she used to be quite aggressive at times(biting me several time a week), as well as very anxious, and having really bad separation anxiety(she'd wail like she was being boiled alive if i so much as went into the basement for 30 seconds.) once she adapted to her meds, her aggression was reduced 90%. she's become much happier, calmer, and more affectionate. her separation anxiety has almost entirely gone away, too.  it isn't the first thing to try, but it is sometimes the right one.  
 you are right she was separated very early. her mother had rejected her litter and they were starving. we did our best to try and teach her normal cat things but it clearly fell flat. i have tried the feliway plug ins with her as well as other calming sprays with no result. i tried calling treats and she refused to eat them. she is a very picky eater. after a good long transition she is now 100% raw fed and turns her nose up to anything else. except any piece of plastic bag she can find- i’ve read this can also be an anxiety indicator. i may be able to stick a pill in her food since she scarfs it down she may not realize, but i doubt i’ll be so lucky. she seems to have made the bathroom her hangout these days and spends a lot of the time there relaxing. i never see her use her posts or cat shelves we built but i actually saw her get on them yesterday so maybe she’s coming around for them a bit. i will see what other calming agents are out there. i was strongly considering trying cbd with her, but seems that’s at least $30 a bottle for a month supply and i just don’t know that i can support that long term i’m drowning in bills as is. i will definitely explore the option a little further.   
 it doesn't work for all cats, but it works well for most. i actually was given the suggestion by siamese rescue (i emailed them when i was at my wit's end, figuring that if anyone knew how to help with siamese cat behavioral issues, it would be them.) it is worth noting that it took a a month or two before the effects were really pronounced, and that she still needed continued behavioral work, but that once she was on the medication, she was calm enough that it actually became possible to start training her out of the problem behaviors.   
 yes i have heard it can take some time for the effects to start showing. i’m sure it will take some time. we’ve waited this long so another couple months will be alright. we don’t have kids yet, but that is the plan- and as it stands i couldn’t trust her in the house with a baby. i just really want to help her at the end of the day and hopefully i get some peace from it too.   
 i think you've combines my 2 cats.  the one afraid of everything (noodle) is not having litter issues. the one grieving (finkerdink) is.   
 "noodle is a giant weirdo and doesn't know how to "cat" and is scared of literally everything. he tends to hind in the litter box" ~ a cat hiding in their litter box all day is not normal. noodle is extremely terrified & or insecure. a stressed/insecure cat spray paints it's name with urine all over the house. a super stressed/insecure cat hides in their litter box all day. it might be worth re-introducing your cats. cat sleeping in the litter box? there's a reason for that introducing cats to cats how to fix an unsuccessful cat introduction excessive marking and stress six surefire strategies to reduce stress in cats  "he started peeing wherever he slept. he would just get up, pee, and move to another spot."~ finkerdink ... well either he is crazy stress and just needs mood stabilizers *fingers crossed* or something else is very wrong. the only cat i have ever known that peed on us while we held her or when she relaxed and fell asleep (then would wake up move to a dry spot and go back to sleep) well that cat broke the last vertebrate in her back. the pet parade: why does my cat urinate when sleeping? litterbox problems? here's why you should call your vet anti-anxiety medication for cats  
 hi! welcome!! can you try a couple of things; obtain a calming product that's a spray (available at pet stores as well as online), and spray your clothing. also, try a hiss when he's doing this, (this is what his mama would do for bad behavior) and fill a metal can half full of coins and give it a good hard shake, or have someone else shake the coin can. don't be shy about making a solid loud sounding hiss, and a dramatic shake of that can. you're right, he needs to have his brain re-wired as soon as is possible. let us know how things go -     
 hello and welcome to tcs. how wonderful that you rescued 2 stray kittens, and have made plans to bring them home with you.   i'm not sure if they'll remember you or not, but people adopt older kittens/cats all the time, and a bond quickly forms, so i wouldn't be too concerned about their memory of you. you could, maybe, leave a worn piece of clothing like a t-shirt, that would have your scent on it. but i'm not sure if the scent would last 3 months.  good luck with everything. do let us know how it goes once they arrive in their new country, and their fur-ever home.   do you have pics of them you could post?  how to add a picture to your forum post  
 if they are very familiar with the scent zones of your breath, and behind your ear, then they are most likely to always remember that it's you. even if you change consumer products. my boy is 9 years old and he still finds those spots comforting all throughout the week, ever since he was 2 1/2 months old. he'll walk up to family members and sniff their parted lips for a few seconds before he's satisfied and then gives out a forceful, friendly head bump - his face to your face.  
 awww.... cutie pies.  i can see why you fell in love with them.    
 so we have a 5 month old kitten, who has had no bathroom issues at all until now. i smelled cat poo, so i checked all the boxes and no poop, so i started looking around and found 3 poops in my sons pack and play. now i have noticed that he has always been interested in the pack and play bc my son is handicap and has the lights that bounce all around the room for him to look at. it made sense that the kitten would love it, bc he can chase the lights. we have had him for 2.5 months and this is the first time he has pooped anywhere outside of the litter box. not sure how to handle this. i am expecting and want to make sure we get this pooping in play pens under control before my next one is here. my son is old enough not to have to use a pack and play daily, but my little one will need one.   just some info: we have 3 litter boxes, one on each level of our home. it has pine pellets (which is what the spca used). all have been cleaned daily. since i am preggo, i make sure to clean them daily so it doesn't have time to form the toxoplasmosis.  
 it could be just their personalities, however, it also sounds like they may have been feral kittens who weren't caught and socialized early enough.   since they fight all the time, i wonder if separating them and doing a re-introduction might help.  i'll post some tcs articles that might have some tips for you, including one on handling ferals.  how to successfully introduce cats: the ultimate guide introducing cats to cats how to fix an unsuccessful cat introduction the multi-cat household  handling feral cats  cat aggression toward people how to stop playtime aggression in cats  is your cat stressed out? you, your cat and stress six surefire strategies to reduce stress in cats  https://thecatsite.com/ams/14-cat-experts-reveal-how-to-get-a-cat-to-like-me.33883/  
 thank you for the tips and your time. when our beloved pets cross over the rainbow bridge, we certainly don't adopt as a replacement but to give another a chance of a loving home. like with humans, no two are alike and each has their own personalities, traits. according to the rescue group, the cats were found as newborn kittens, bottled fed, placed into foster. i thought adopting from a foster was a better choice thinking chances of disease among so many shelter cats is common. they are nice cats, but can be nicer. they don't fight over food/toys, the female sometimes grooms the male. because i've had cats for so many yrs that doesn't make me an expert, but i do believe the male has a very independent nature, he has yet to rub against and claim me, petting has to be on his terms and for a very short period, and i'm convinced as kittens the female received more attention. of all the cats i have shared my home with i have never come across one with the personality of this male. he's not mean, nasty. they were raised together, i think there will be problems if separated and reintroduced. the cat attacks are not to the point of blood shed, i don't intervene for concern they will think i prefer one over the other and that will create hostility towards each other. i will refer the list you sent and appreciate your time. elaine  
    
 thank you for your input and time. in addition to full range of the home, they have a room specifically designed for their comfort, same room all previous cats enjoyed. these 2 new additions spend a lot of time in the room which also has a window. they have comfortable access to other windows. believe me, these cats live better than me!! i play with them, they have lots of toys. i try to pick up each one every day hoping they'd get used to it. i also tried for a few seconds grooming, i doubt that will ever be possible. they only understand the words "come on" that means it's feeding time, they go directly in their room and sit at the tray. they don't scratch the furniture, have plenty of scratching posts. there are a couple of good qualities. they will stay in the same room with me, i just hope the male will, someday, allow to be petted and both of them like to be picked up. elaine  
 i know, i thought about that, but if you are looking right at the kitten and directing the hiss that way, it should be fairly clear, and maybe even worth it to avoid the kitten getting bitten...  
 i think you may be right. it also sounds like he's doing what people are advised to do with misbehaving kittens. if they don't play nice, walk away and ignore them for a short time. since it's only one part of his body she's not allowed to touch it will take longer for her to learn what the specific thing she is doing that annoys him. he might have to be firmer with her. it really does sound like he understands "kitten" and is trying to teach her.   
 hi. getting him fixed will help. i don't know how much, you'll have to wait until his system clears all the testosterone, and then see how he behaves. here's hoping!!  
 well we got the kitten fixed and it's been now over 30 days and seem's getting him fixed did not help his aggressiveness. he still very much attacks my other cats constantly. i am debating on taking him to the vet to see about medication to calm him down or see what they suggest. this is so very upsetting because it's now close to winter time and cats are more indoors now and the attacking is even more present.  
 just to preface, i've read all the articles, watched the videos, etc. i understand patience is the key. however, one of the things all of the articles recommend is getting the cats to eat by each other on either side of the door. how would one accomplish something like that if resident cat is not motivated by food? i'm having a hard time even getting her into the room where the door separating them is. it's like she's just totally ignoring that he is there. we tried the room swap this morning, and she didn't even seem that interested in exploring his nest.  
 nope. she is not motivated by food. she likes to eat her wet food where she decides is a good place, and then only three licks or so. her dry food (which i have to give her since she won't eat wet) is only in the guest bedroom. she is not even necessarily motivated by treats. she might gobble down a treat right now, but tonight decide she doesn't want it.  i have thinking about baby gates, or pet gates. i will look at that link. dh wants to crack the door, but i think the baby gates would be better if i could get them to work.   
 how old is the new cat, and resident cat? how long have you had the new cat?  
 would it be okay if my cat is 3 months old snd the kitten we would be adopting is 5 months old? i am really scared of the new kitten biting me along with him.  
 we have been saying no to him forever he could not care less about the command to be honest.  you cannot ignore him because he comes at you like he wants to scratch everywhere with his teeth and it hurts so much, we all have random scratch marks i was prepared to be scratched by a cat when we gave him a home but i didnt know it would be almost all the time he is sitting next to me we cant even heal properly. and worst is this behaviour keeps getting worse... he almost never asks for being pet, if he is sleepy he will tolerate you touching him but rarely comes on his own, rubbing. he has never rubbed on us except for like 3-4 times ever since we lived together and those were times thst i put my hand in front of his face and waited. i feel like he simply does not feel comfy with our love. yet he does purr if you pet him while he sleeps/is sleepy.  
 he is being a kitten (that was not allowed to stay with his mom/siblings long enough.) with that in mind you can adopt that 5 month old kitten but be sure that that kitten does not attack people during play & is well socialized. explain your current cat problem if you go to adopt a second kitten, that way they can better match your cat.  i would clap my hands when he attacks and say ow. if after a month that failed i would start carrying around a pennycan (or squirt bottle if that fails) everywhere i went inside the house. when he attacks loudly say "ow!!!" and shake the can. then here is what seals it, blatantly ignore him for 15 minute. repeat 20-50 times. he will learn attacking you, ends play time, every time. i didn't clap i just wailed/howled "oooooooooooooooooooooowwwwwwwwwwwwww!!!!" loudly when the kitten attacked. then i ignored them for 15 minute, just walked away to another room and would not acknowledge the kitten. i know the wailing ow seems over dramatic but just pretend they stabbed you in the leg with a knife, so they learn that it hurts you. years later if i say "oooowwww" quietly both of my cats freeze and then come over to check for damage (i used to show them my blood so they could smell they hurt me) i give them a pet to let them know i'm ok and they go back to normal.  also if you see him hunting you, throw a toy away from you, then engage him with play using toys. at that age you need to plan on 3-4 twenty minute play sessions per day or 5-10 ten minute play sessions per day. remember all play happens with toys, not hands.  
 hello,   i need some advice on some bullying behavior that has arisen among my cats. the main instigator is a 3 year old fixed male, and the target is a 2 year old fixed female. multiple times a day the male will attack the female, and she will scream bloody murder, but not attempt to run away or fight back. she will quite literally hunch down as close as she can to the ground and scream like her life is being threatened.   we are not worried about him physically hurting her as often times he just runs at her, and smacks her a bunch without his claws extended. we have never seen him attempt to bite or scratch her. he also frequently likes to charge her when she is eating, drinking, ambushes her coming out from the litter box, and physically block her path if he can.  this bullying has caused her to start hissing and screaming when any of the other cats in the house get near her. this often causes the other cats to lash out at her creating a viscous cycle of her screaming and them smacking her that ends only when one of them is physically removed from the situation. we have provided vertical spaces and added additional cat paths through most rooms of the house to provide her escape routes however she refuses to utilize them.   we have tried to physically separate her and the instigating male however they refuse to be confined in any way and have done damage to the carpet, and floor when they can't get through a door or a baby gate. the bullying behavior has created a lot of anxiety in my wife and i. we are desperately looking for anything that can relieve this behavior.   thank you so much for any advice you might be able to give,  
 i had a cat with anxiety who would bully one of our other cats. he also had feline hyperesthesia. what we found worked best was to not just try to stop the "bullying behavior" but to help reduce his anxiety, and to increase our "victim's" confidence.  and the thing is many things that are done to decrease stress in an anxious cat are also things that increase confidence as well. i know you mentioned a few things already that you've done, so i'm sorry if i'm repeating those, but i'm just going to list all the things i've learned over the years.  environment: vertical spaces including vertical escape routes, so the victim does not only have the option of running away on the floor. this can be achieved by strategically placing existing furniture, cat trees and other shelving. creating a multi level "highway" around and thru the room. feed cats in their own space, to prevent the bully from pushing the victim away from her food.  have litter boxes on every level of your home, and make sure you have at least one box per cat plus an extra for good measure. make sure every litter box area has an escape route (more than one exit/entrance path) but is still in a quiet comfortable space. if your victim has a "safe space" try to keep the bully from that area. calming diffusers and sprays can work well from some. be sure you do not have an outside force causing your "bully" to be stressed or feel his territory is being threatened. stray, other neighborhood cat or dog, wild animal visiting or using your yard as a bathroom or spraying/marking. there are animal repellent sprays you can apply outside to the perimeter of your home and in flower beds and such to help this.  activity and interaction: play with your cats more, separately and (eventually) together. create the instinct of hunt, play, catch, eat, groom, sleep pattern. play until they are tired, let them "catch" the toy in the end, give them their meal or a treat, then they should want to go groom themselves and then nap. if you get to a point where you can do this with both of them at the same time, together. hopefully the bully will no longer need to bully, and the victim will be more confident and stand up for herself, and not be as afraid of the bully. they will also associate good things and non-stressful, normal cat behavior around each other. when the bully is calm or you notice he's being good (ignoring) the victim when in close proximity, reward him. show that good things come from being calm.  never use aggressive behavior to train a cat, that only gives them more reason to be stressed and act out further. especially if you end up scaring the victim more than you distract the bully. redirection and praising the good are the best ways.  wow, this turned out to be really long, i'm sorry....but i have one more thing for you to consider.  have you had your victim to your vet recently? i only say this because, our "bully" cat, would become especially aggressive with our "victim" when he (the victim) was sick. our victim, because of health issues, was prone to mouth and tooth infections, and basically always has gum issues. we noticed that whenever he had a flair up (active infection), our bully could sense it and would attack even more. (he was not the nurturing type! lol!) during the time we administered his medications and for a few weeks following, miraculously, our bully left the victim alone. as our victim's health issues became chronic, we had to simply keep them permanently separated.   i hope all this helps, and sorry again that it's so long. if i think of more things, i'll come back. please do keep us posted on your kitties!  
 hi jem,  thanks for responding. there are definitely some things i think we can try. we have added as many cat highways as we can. our house is a little over 100 years old so there are a few points were we have struggled to handle this, such as some upstairs hallways were there is very very little space to work with, but i would say with confidence every space in the house has at least 1 vertical cat route, and 1 ground route. rooms have more usually 2 or 3 vertical routes depending on the size of the room, and multiple routes that involve either just the floor or a combination of the floor and some sort of vertical space.  we are looking at improving the litter box situation we have 6 boxes 3 on the top floor of the house, and 3 on the bottom floor. this has helped to reduce the litter box ambushes. when an ambush occurs the male generally hides behind a wall, piece of furniture, etc and charges at her as soon as he sees her go to leave. our current objective here is to try and find spaces in the house where the litter box can be but an ambush is as hard as possible.  the victim has 2 safe spaces, there are 2 rooms upstairs that she loves and the other cats especially the bully seem absolutely uninterested in. it just sucks because she is a very sweet cat and those rooms are a laundry room and the bathroom were she likes to sleep on the bath mat. this means spending time with her in her safe spaces can be awkward. unfortunately there aren't any safe spaces downstairs that she has taken to. we have some cat trees, "caves" with multiple entrances, and perches where there are multiple ways to enter or leave, but she hasn't taken to any of them. it makes both of us very sad to see her have to exclude herself to get some peace.   there is nothing that we have identified that is stressing him out from outside the house or inside the house. there are occasional other animals but he never seems bothered by them. his body language and activity doesn't change if he sees them, and his bullying doesn't seem to correspond with them being around.   he is extremely affectionate towards us and our other cats, and spends most of the time in an extremely good mood, doing normal happy cat stuff. just sometimes it seems like a switch flips and he goes after her, and then as soon as its over he immediately goes back to normal. these switches don't correspond with his twitch attacks which was an early thought we had. when he has a twitch attack he is honestly completely engaged with it and bother before, during, and after is focused on find either my wife or i to help him.   i really like what you said about playing with them and rewarding the bully when he is calm around her. i think that there is a lot of potential there as the bully is a very food motivated cat. we never use any sort of aggressive behavior to try to modify the behaviors. we just calmly separate the two, and keep them apart for a short period of time.   we have recently started to feed them separately and this does seem to have improved things in that regard. we do often leave some food out during the day, just in case someone gets hungry. it honestly might be worth stopping that to try and eliminate all food based issues. however i might have trouble selling that to my wife, as she worries frequently about them being hungry while we are gone.   do you have any other ideas on how to boost the victims confidence? we have definitely noticed before that she is not a confident cat. she also is honestly a very lazy cat. she is not food motivated, if you try and play with her she just watches the toy but doesn't try and play at all. we have struggled extensively to find something that will motivate her to get her moving. nothing really seems to work, she just never seems interested in playing in any form.  we actually have taken her to the vet multiple times because of how inactive she is. her most recent appointment was 2 months ago. the vet gave her a clean bill of health, while her weight is in the middle of the healthy range, he note that her body fat percentage was high. which makes sense considering she doesn't seem to like to move. the vet hasn't really given us any ideas on how to get her to be more active.   writing this actually did get me thinking about the behavior and i'm remembering something house guests/sitters have said. this behavior only seems to occur or occurs more often when my wife or i are home. thinking about it, is it possible that the bully has some jealous or confidence issues towards the victim?   i guess the reason i had discounted that when people have mentioned it before is that its entirely targeted towards her. i could see that possibly making sense if she were the most recent kitty however she is not our most recent cat, and they only started this within 6 months.   thank you for commenting there are definitely somethings i am going to try. hopefully they will make a difference. honestly they don't need to every necessarily like each other, though that would be nice, we just need them to tolerate each other so that everyone is happier.  
 sounds like "rabbit kicking". many cats do the this to toys and random things like blankets. it's probably some hunting instinct they still have it just another one of those oddball cat behaviors.  
 they are both microchipped, vaccinated, treated for worms and again since the 6th of september, 2018, have been treated for fleas. i introduced them to my room and they ran straight under the bed as expected, which is all good. my siblings came home from school and met them, overwhelming i know. they liked the attention but were still anxious. they ate and drank water and used the cat litter tray, everything's going fine so far. there's a cat tower, horizontal cat scratchers, toys, a box, i'll find another for the other cat. mats for them to sleep on. i used catnip around the room and that brought them out and made them all nice and friendly and cuddly for about five minutes with my sister <3 they seem fine?  
 susanm9006 - definitely. i agree, thank you for that  i'll be sure to let my family know    haha, at quarter to two in the morning, ollie ( the youngest cat was making lots of noise and so i followed him and that's when i realised he was hiding down the stairs all along. personally, have been taking the risk   the woman i adopted them off did say that they would be fine, they would just take more time, love, affection and patience  <3 x but definitely, worth it   
 hi everyone, i have a brown tabby that is just over 1 yrs old and has always been a talker since the day i got him. when i first got him, i started him off in one room but he was quick to want to explore the rest of my place (small, about 1000sq ft) and the first 2 nights he roamed the halls meowing a lot. i assumed because he was looking for his previous foster parent and siblings? overtime he got better but 2 months ago he sick with a viral gastroenteritis (labs and abdominal x-ray was normal) and since then he's been extra clingy.   unfortunately, i also started a new job right after he recovered from his sickness and recently started clinical rotations for school-- meaning i'm gone and away from home more often than usual and not home at regular times. i do have a roommate whose schedule stays pretty regular (normal 8-5pm).   recently he's been doing this thing where he might go the whole day and not really eat his food. he's gone from peeing once or twice to only once now and seems to roam the halls meowing a lot, even when i'm home. he will still play, eat treats, etc. should i chop this all up to just his stress to my new schedule or should i be more concerned and take him to a vet? i've gotten feliway plug-ins for him to see if it'll help with the stress but i'm not sure they work.  
 aww thank you for the response! i think he senses my stress and anxiety too, but i’m trying. i try to reserve 30min or more after work just to get him to play. hopefully he figures it out soon.  
 3 days ago!  
 lol. they're like, "dad, it's the day after thanksgiving. we want leftovers!"   
 that's her in your avatar photo? she's beautiful!! hmmm. maybe try the playtime idea, either with the two of them together in an area but playing separately with several different toys and at least two people one for each cat, and then eventually with just one toy between the two of them?  
 was larry this playful before you started using the feliway? we tried it with sweet gum and she became a kitten again - biting and attacking anything that moved. we got rid of the stuff and her thin veneer of civilization returned.  
 chase and hide is a favored cat game. so is stalk and wait. gracie isn't screaming for a rescue, is she? you may have already succeeded in your introduction. of course, they may now consider the chase - get separated - view through the child gate - eat separate - get together a game now. a game that involves the humans. not too shabby there.  are you waiting until they both sleep on the same bed at night? cause sometimes that never happens.  
 no, we're nowhere near expecting them to curl up and sleep together. we know that's still a l-o-n-g way off. and no, thankfully she's not screaming when she's cornered. she did the first time it happened, but that was a couple of weeks ago and she hasn't done that since.  it seems that yesterday's extended chase/hide has really spooked gracie, though. she will now not come out of her base camp, even after watching larry (through the gate) be sequestered in another closed room.  our concern is that gracie doesn't know that she should chase back, or to establish her boundaries w/ larry... and that she's actually becoming more afraid rather than more confident. she seems to be *losing* confidence rather than gaining it.  
 when i added a second cat, my first loved to chase her around and into corners. i’d have to go break it up and separate for awhile. they were ok with each other, not friendly but not aggressive, but then the 1st especially at night would get feisty and decide she wanted to chase.   i kept the new cat in my bedroom at night, in different levels when i was gone and kept breaking it up, after a month or so she was mostly over it, another few months and it’s an equal common game, they clean and lay by each other, not bffs but get along very decently. so i didn’t really do anything although i had a diffuser going, just let time take it’s course.  
 the three in my house will sometimes group up. my girl has a habit of running to hide behind the boys if another cat is chasing her. the few times i've seen them react to an intruder nightfury will guard the doorway into the house, link will face the intruder and rocket will try to circle around.  
 i'd be interesting in knowing the ages and any (if at all) genetic family ties when it comes to these cats. we have a few sets of litter mates that gang up on the others like some kind of weird, cat-driven gang. it's not nice and kind of disturbing, and we don't allow it, and the same happens with dogs....litter mates will gang up on a non-litter mate or non (genetic) family member like a group of nerdy and bratty school kids heightened by their "power" in numbers, and need to be told to knock it down a peg (or 10.) bully someone your own age, i'll watch out for the underdog, but bully someone who is older than you and bruce don't play, man. you don't screw with the old ones. as i said before...if this cat is older, get them checked out for health problems. if the cat isn't older, get them checked out anyway. often, cats will gang up on a cat that they've lived with for years without a problem when that cat is sick or showing signs of illness. we have a cat that will get bladder inflammation or a uti at nothing and when the others start flipping out on her, we know something is brewing.  if i were you, i'd check out the genetic ties of the group of cats and if at all possible, have the targeted cat checked for health problems.  
 i think it takes a very close relationship and strong group ties for cats to band together to defend "their" territory. i've been walking my cat for 4 years on a leash and have had to negotiate my way out of a lot of cat fights. my guy and i have only ever been set upon by two obviously close cats once - one cat started trying to fight and another heard the noise and immediately ran to back up its buddy.   it's definitely a strength in numbers approach. my cat would definitely have tried fighting one cat (had i not stopped him), but the second he saw the other he got nervous and backed off.  
 hello my kitten cheerio keeps chewing on my charger cord. i'm kindda concern. see my other cat yeti doesn't do that, and im under worried that she going to get hurt.  please give me some feedback, cheerrio&yeti  
 put cords away when not in use, if possible.  cover cords with cord covers. office stores sell these or make your own with aquarium air line tubing. slit the tube lengthwise on because and tuck cords inside. coat the tube with bitter apple spray if needed.  take a look through similar threads on cord chewing for suggestions: search results for query: chewing cords | thecatsite  bored kittens often chew on cords soaks sure you give you kitten plenty of playtime. kittens have no manners and don't know that chewing on cords and other things is a no no. you have to be patient and teach a kitten. many eventually grow out of it as they be older.  
 hi,   i have two adorable bsh cats called percy and barnaby (they're on instagram @percyandbarn, hehe...). they are half-brothers and are about three to four months apart in age. percy is the elder of the two. they are good friends generally and they have no problem being around each other. they eat next to each other, for example, and occasionally groom each other. they also sleep fairly close to each other, sometimes snuggling up. percy, however, likes to roughhouse and when he does, barnaby will often start squealing and run away. percy will sometimes then chase him. i presume this is because percy is either hurting or scaring barnaby. but the moment i put them in separate rooms, they're playing with each other under the door and calling to each other. i'm confused and don't know if it's something i should be worried about or what i should do about it...!  
 that’s really helpful, thanks. the less enthusiastic one will typically run away but as soon as rough play is over they’re around each other and just hanging out. sometimes, the less enthusiastic one initiates it too. he just gets more than he bargained for a lot of the time!  sounds like it’s not anything to worry about then.  
 playing is only too aggressive if there is bloodshed or if one cat is hiding in fear, not eating, using the litterbox, etc because they are too terrified of the other. otherwise let them be.  
 yep. super common situation. like the big brother little brother scenario, its not a perfect relationship, but they do get value out of it and its best to leave them to it.  
 i have a 3 1/2 month old siberian. he's been an absolutely incredible cat. he travels well. loves being affectionate and hanging around us. the only downside is that occasionally after urinating he will come over to us and his but will wet with urine. it rarely happens when he poops(one time i can recall). does anyone have an idea why this happens and how to prevent it? we just yesterday tried trimming his behind area.   we use world's best cat litter and a modkat litter box.  also does anyone have experience with the worlds best lavender? i love the worlds best because its's natural, i can put it right in the toilet and it's septic safe but man we're having some serious odor control issues. wondering what things people have tried.  
 hi. you had me at 'winnie'... i'm a sucker, sorry. you've got to go with your gut. best wishes for all of you if you make winnie part of your family!  
 resident cat - leon  leon is a 2.5 year old neutered male that i have had since he was 8 weeks old. he is an indoor cat and whilst very playful, is not what you would describe as a lap cat. he is very confident and i occasionally take him to my mum's house where as a kitten he tried to play with my mum's cat but now a an adult they just fight.  stray cat - stray  she was found outside our house on monday morning, dirty, running across the road and crying her little heart out. the vets say she is 16-20 weeks old, healthy, not spayed and not microchipped. she is extremely playful and affectionate.  the introduction  the first introduction between leon and the stray wasn't great as it consisted of me grabbing the kitten from outside and placing her inside where leo was, he hissed and growlled and was just very unhappy but my concern at this pont was making sure she was okay, which she was.  after the vets i decided to keep her in the bathroom with her own litter tray, toys, food and water hoping that her owners would be looking for her and she was in there untill wednesday nearly but oh my she was super unhappy. meowing at the door constantly unless someone was with her and of cause the little houdini bolted out of the door several times only to be met by a growling leon which didn't bother her in the slightest. they were being fed on opposite sides of the door and leon didn't have much of a problem with this. i kept putting her in whatever room i was in whenever leon was asleep in a different room to stop her crying and whenever leon came into a room that she had been in he would sniff super curiously. at this point i decided to plug in a feliway friends we had to calm him down a little.  the escape  i went out for a few hours on the wednesday, so two days after we had brought her into the house, but when i came back leon and the stray were sat by the door waiting for me. i'm not sure how she had gotten out but she seemed perfectly fine so i fed them both next to each other and decided to just let them be for a few hours. leon would chase her when she ran and then she would run in the other direction and he would follow and then they would play with each other behind the curtain. she occasionally tried to instigate a chase but leon would sit there looking very unimpressed when she did so.  a couple of times he cornered her and swatted her but she would hiss and then he backed off and she would go running back for more.  they slept in the same room, although not touching.  i thought it was all going very well at this point so we seperated them in the evening.  thursday  i let her out in the morning and fed them together, they touched noses and ran around for a bit with leon chasing her and then her going back for more. i put her back in the bathroom for a few hours as i didn't want leon to start getting aggressive and then they were fed together at lunch time and she was left out, put back in the bathroom at night.  on friday i was at work so she was left in the bathroom until the evening. when i got home they were fed together and they touched noses as normal but the 'play' seemed much more aggressive and i think it ventured into fighting at some points. she has never seemed scared of leon and she instigates a lot her self and is quite happy to pounce on him and swat at him. this typically ends up with her on her back with leon giving her a little swat as well. this doesn't really concern me though. however, leon chases her whenever she runs and she seems fine with this until he corners her at which point she hisses, there is some really low growling from one of them and he backs away. a couple of times leon has meowed at her although i'm not sure why. there has never been any yowling or any noises which make me think she is in pain or is truly scared. they both use eachother litter tray and leon will let her sniff his food whilst he's eating.  leon has had an endless supply of treats whenever she is near and although i've tried to play with him he's much more interested in what she is doing.  it can vary depending on what they're doing but leo's tail is generally lightly curved and slightly puffed and twitching when he is chasing her, his ears are up and his pupils slightly dialated. he is generally super easy to distract except when he has her cornered. the only time her ears are flat are when he has her cornered and she is hissing at him.  they both sleep in the same room thoughout the day.  i still have't been able to find her owners and no one has contacted the vets about her so i am looking at keeping her. if i do then i will get her spayed in a months time as i am going away for a week so i won't get her done when i'm not around to ensure her recoery.  i am wondering if you think this playing, fighting or a mixture of them both?   i have attached a couple of videos of where i think leon may be being aggressive but i would like to reiterate the she doesn't seem scared of him and has attacked and pestered and tried to play with him numerous times after these incidents.  just now leon walked out of his bed and up to her, touched her nose and then lay down 20 cm away from her and now they are just dozing/grooming.   tldr; i found a stray, may keep her, she got out before i wanted her to. leon chases her and bats her, she pounces on him and bats him. they touch noses, sleep in the same room and eat together. he normally stops when she hisses at him but i have heard a couple of growls  
 leon is definitely not being aggressive. he is trying pretty hard to engage her in play but she is not fully ready for it quite yet. he actually seems quite patient and is backing off when she seems not interested or is hiding. i wouldn’t worry about the hisses or growls, some are to be expected.  
 maybe he has a urinary issue? but apparently you cant take him to the vet anyways. the best and kindest thing would be for you to surrender him. please don't get another pet until you're in a financial position to do so.  
 it sounds as if finding a no kill shelter would be your best option. unless you got him from the no kill shelter in the first place there would likely be a surrender fee, but it would be less then continued care of your cat. your cat would also get medical treatment and possible find a family he is better suited for.  i wouldn't consider another pet until you are in a better position to provide for one. i went through a few years without a cat because i didn't have time or resources for one. nothing wrong with admitting to yourself that a specific time or place just isn't right for you to have a pet.  
 some people just aren't cat people and that is ok. it took you to owning one to find that out unfortunately but what is done is done. i think you and this cat will be happier if you rehome and i highly recommend you do so. the cat may be ill, he is obviously stressed as you are stressed and he will pick up on that. if he isn't neutered that will help a load of your issues with him but if not, you don't want to spend money on him anyway.   it is ok. please find him a new home. where are you located? you don't have to be specific but what city/state/country?  
 his name is oliver. he's 4. i got him when he was a kitten. he is neutered. this behavior started when i moved. my apartment is tiny and there is nothing interesting right outside the windows, so i think he's bored. i play with him sometimes, but probably not as much as i should. he doesn't pee on stuff all the time, but if i leave for a weekend or something, he will, even though i have someone watching my pets. or if he gets mad at me. cat pee is very hard to get rid of and stinks up a tiny apartment real quick.  i think i was at my wits end this morning. he kept me up all night because i was trying to keep him contained so i could look after his toe. i'm not some irresponsible person who doesn't consider vet bills when getting a pet. i had thousands of dollars in an emergency fund specifically for my pets when i started grad school. however, it has dwindled. i've already spent over $800 on vet bills for this cat, who is my only non-senior pet. i don't get pets without considering the cost. i even take my bunny to the vet when needed and because of that, she's celebrating her 13th birthday on nov. 1st.   i graduate in a year or so with a degree that pays very well. i'll be able to buy a house soon after, and he'll have plenty of room. i don't know if rehoming him would take a load off my chest, or if i'd just regret it in a year when i am living comfortably. i don't actually hate him (though he isn't a "heart" pet like my bunny is), just more often than not, he is the straw that breaks the camel's back in a very stressful graduate program.   
 hi. well it sounds like you're feeling better now.  have you looked at his diet? is he getting enough canned food?  
 hi! try an enzymatic cleaner called the equalizer, it doesn't require soaking like some of the others do.  when you're preparing to leave for a few days, try a litter called cat attract.  try music, it works to relax cats - there's an app called relax my cat, or musicforcats.com  food puzzles for cats  20 best interactive cat toys: the ultimate list (2018) | heavy.com  home the ripple rug  
 just in case this helps before your graduation et al  no money for vet care? how to find help and save your cat's life  financial aid for pets  
 thank you for your reply and clarifying your situation.  it helps us to give you the best advice and support. also thanks for telling us your cat's name and age. i wouldn't be surprised if the move instigated oliver's change in behavior. i thought this article about moving to a new apartment might be helpful: 9 tips that will help your kitten adapt to a new apartment  your original post mentioned moving to a tiny apartment so perhaps this article would have some tips for you: how to make your home bigger (at least for your cats)  i understand how being sleep deprived can certainly make you feel less tolerant at times plus the added stress of grad school. don't do anything in haste, take some time to reassess your feelings and how it would affect oliver. btw, does he play with the bunny?   i wish you the best of luck and if you have any other questions or concerns please feel free to let us know.   
 it sounds like both you and oliver are stressed out. most people have encouraged you to rehome. since you're not sure if you'd regret that decision i have some suggestions to help you decide.   just like you schedule your classes schedule oliver's play times. since he getting injured going out unsupervised try harness training. hopefully this will build a relationship or help you see he would be happier with someone else.  do you have any friends who'd be willing to stay at your apt when you go away? maybe someone who's still with their parents or in a dorm.  
 oh, he has dry food left out all day, and then gets canned food in the evening.   
 i recently asked my boyfriend if i could turn tommy over to a babysitter to get a freaking break for a weekend or something. i've been depressed for two weeks (clinical; it's a gift) and he makes me nuts. this guy doesn't try to make my life hell though, he's just got so much energy and is always seeing what he can get away with. he loves us dearly, but i told my partner "i need you to spend time with him this evening while i go to my room with the other cats, or he's at risk of me overreacting and making the wrong, rash decision. he used to be huge. 21 lbs. he couldn't possibly get into that much trouble. then i took a few years and slimmed him down. then he got urinary issues and surgery and is on a raw diet and is off of carbs. then i took him off prozac he was on for a year for anxiety. then we got a bigger house.  we've been through a lot of changes in 9 years. he's moved with us 5 times.  and i am completely broke. i can't even afford tom's vet bills from 2017, so bf took those over so i didn't have to put him down when he required life saving measures.  i have rehomed cats before. cats that didn't want to be part of a clowder, or cats that couldn't defend themselves properly. i did take the responsibility to give them a forever home, but it turned out mine wasn't the right fit, and then i went ahead and placed them in, i hope, their forever homes.  
 i'm glad to hear that you're feeling a little better about your situation, @resigned. everyone has suggested good ideas already, though i agree that stimulating oliver is a very good idea; i hope that things will work out for the two of you   
 out of curiosity, what was your relationship like with him before the move and this behavior started?  
 i survived my punk' s hyper years. during that time i called him some names in my head, he thought his name meant no & i used to fantasize about giving him cold baths (or shaving him!)  he is my bud and i love him. i'm his human. some cats are just super clingy, hyper and bullying jerks to other cats. that is my punk, dante.  my advice? hang in there, get him to a vet asap and only allow him outside on a harness.  
 @catsknowme hmm, i wonder if joey is part mc and that's why he is so hyper i did not know this, looks similar to resigned's cat, i will try and post a pic of joey.  
 that sounds a lot like oliver. i do think he is part mc. he is large for a cat, and very smart. he knows how to open my door using the door handle and i'm amazed at what he picks up. i think i probably just need to come to grips with the fact that he needs to be an indoor/outdoor cat and i can't freak out when that means he occasionally gets into trouble.   
 years ago i was in graduate school and after an awful experience with roommates who literally kept leaving the front door open and i almost ran over my cat in the driveway, i always make my cats indoor only and a whole bunch of other nightmare roommate stuff, i moved from a large two floor house with a basement to s tiny one room studio apartment for a year or so. the kitchen was separate but it was tiny.  each cat had lived alone with me in a dorm room during college, one for just a few months when he was a kitten and o found him starving. then i sent him to my mom's house where he lived with two other cats for a few years. my older cat and my mom hated each other and she kept peeing on my mom's work clothes so she moved into my college dorm room for my last two years of college and lived with me everywhere for the rest of her life. she loved it and never peed again except once peed blood so i got her treated for a uti. when i moved from a large house to that small space, both cats got stressed especially the younger one. they were fighting a lot and noisy and running around and clingy and fighting over who got to betbetnext to me in the bed. we were all going crazy in that little space as we couldn't move without tripping over each other. the window view was a concrete wall so no birds or interesting things for them either. we got through it and i moved to a larger apartment. what's funny was i thought the younger cat needed the space and the older cat didn't care as much. nope. the younger cat was freaked out by the new place and all the spa e and huddled crying in a corner for a day befibe he started exploring . needed lots of reassuring. my fifteen year old girl who had moved everywhere with me was so happy to have room again she literally trotted all around the new place happily. from one room to another nust looking around . literally nonstop trotting and looking all day and all night for a full day long. she wouldn't even stop to use the kitty litter eat or drink but kept going like the energizer bunny. i was worried that the small place had driven her literally over the edge and she was going to collapse. she was fine and eventually stopped but kept on trotting around for many hours. she lived to be twenty. the enzymatic cleaners the pet stores sell vet rid of the pee smells better so he won't smell it and be tempted to keep marking the same soots. he definitely looks like he has some maine coon and at four they're pretty active. he's adorable with your bunny. i never let any of my cats out and my maine coon mix never peed. my apartment isn't huge now and there were four cats plus my large dog when i moved two and a half years ago. two cats have since died of cancer. now he just got diagnosed with cancer so i'd say enjoy your pets while you can they're pretty fragile. i personally don't let them out and if he gets hurt outside already it's just going to be more expensive in vet bills and you have to vaccinate them more. plus how would you feel if he did get hit by a car? i live in a large city and there's coyotes even here, spotted in the local dog park. they're everywhere and eat cats.  
 we can't know how it is going to end up. maybe the kitten will focus on the ones that tolerate him. maybe one or two will play with him a bit. maybe one of them will put him in his place when he overdoes it. and yes, there is some risk that he will keep stalking & jumping on one or two that most want to be left alone causing stress. all of these things are very possible. your going to have to see how it goes, but *your* stress/guilt level is too high. it is too early to assume this will be a big/lingering problem, so have a glass of wine, take a bath, w/e and relax! keep up your introduction process and play it by ear.  
 this kitten makes 5 plus we have a 10 year old dog so i don’t think hubby would go for a second kitten. i’ll read the article in the link you posted. i watched a few videos of jackson galaxy’s on cat intros to get me started. what do you all think of his advice?  
 i would not medicate a cat that just misses you, just my preference. plus, you aren't there to monitor his reaction.  if you have a boarding facility that's roomy, very small in space and numbers (no 500 dogs and 800 cats, ok, exaggeration, but you know what i mean!) that's clean, roomy, has natural light, and ample spaces for litter boxes and food to be separate (no "food and water dishes 2 inches from the litter"), this might work for a longer stay (more than 2 weeks or so.) someone should be there 24 hours a day, too.  do you leave a radio on, a tv on, access to most of the house, or is he confined into a smaller section of your house while you're away when he's used to having the run of the place while you're around?  
 i agree that a boarding facility is more stressful for your cat since they are territorial and prefer to be in their own home/environment. if you could look into getting a reputable pet sitter it would help put your mind at ease or if you know someone who is familiar with cats and could stay at your home that would also be a good option. our pet sitter visits a few days before we leave then comes in twice a day when we are gone. she stays for a minimum of half an hour each time.   here is an excellent article that discusses concerns about leaving a cat alone:  how long can you leave your cat alone for? and another one about choosing a pet sitter: a pet owner's guide to pet sitters  best of luck!  orion looks like a sweetheart.   
 hi all,  i've posted a few times now about cinnabon (1 year old spayed female) and her habit of peeing outside the box. on the advice of some members, i took her to the vet, who tested a sample of her urine and told me there's nothing wrong with her medically. the vet gave me a bottle of pills to correct what we now know is a behavioral issue.  the problem now is that cinnabon does not like it when i try to feed her the pills. i've tried the method mentioned on here, holding her from behind and trying to open her mouth at the same time, but she was not having any of it.  i bought the greenies pill pockets today and plan on trying to feed her the pill that way when i get home, but she's a pretty clever cat when she wants to be and i could see her easily figuring out that there's a pill inside (that is, if she will even eat the greenies in the first place).  the other issue is i am very worried that she will end up hating me because of this. i know it might sound silly, but today i was trying to feed her the pill and she hissed at me, which she has never done before. i tried to pet her after the unsuccessful pilling attempt and she shrank from me. we have a wonderful relationship and i'm anxious that i will ruin it and lose her trust because of this.  anyone been in the same situation? how on earth do i give her these pills?? how the heck does anyone do it? i am not comfortable being rough with her and i really don't want her to end up hating me.  
 she doesn't eat wet food - that's a whole other battle we've fought for months over in the past. she'd rather starve. i've also been considering mixing little bits of the pill into her dry food.   
 try another pill dough. some cats may just not like pill pockets. i use a bacon flavored pill dough when my cats need pills.  ask the vet if the pills can be crushed up. if it can, try that and mix into a little bit of canned tuna in water. or take some plain poached chicken and grind it up into paste in a food processor, then mix the crushed pill into that. also ask the vet if the medicine is available in a liquid form. sometimes liquids are easier to give.  how long do you need to give the medicine for? if it's short term, it's not worth compounding the medicine into something like a chew treat or transdermal gel.  
 when you are forcing a pill down your cat, remember it's to help her get well. she won't like it, probably wouldn't believe you if she could understand the words. she may twist, scream, hiss, even claw the living ... whatever out of you. but once she has a few minutes afterward, she'll be fine.   she won't hate you.   cats have the amazing way of tolerating pilling and other things that make them fight us and not hate us. we've always joked that cats just figure their people go insane from time to time. once the person has recovered, stopped forcing pills down (in that minute, tomorrow is another pill, another episode of insanity) they are fine. in fact, some cats seem to think their people need extra care after such an episode.  i put the meds in tuna, not albacore that tastes like chicken, but tuna that tastes like tuna. if you don't want to use human tuna, you can buy tuna cat food. treat it like a treat, like your food you don't really want to share. that makes it more interesting.  
 i wish i had some tips for you, but i've been lucky with saipha. she has pica, so all i had to do was "accidentally" drop the pill on the ground, and she gobbled it right up. even when she discovered that it didn't taste good, she loved getting pilled with the pill gun and would come running when i pulled it out. i didn't even have to give her a treat afterwards. she's a weird cat.   
 haha i guess that sort of balances the multiple trips to the vet and x-rays every time she's eaten something dangerous. she's a strange little cat but i love her.   
 hello and welcome to tcs. sorry it's litter box issues that brought you here.   did anything happen that might have caused him to feel stressed or territorial before he started using the bed? is he an only pet? is he neutered yet?  it's a bit different with kittens, than older cats, but i'll post links to some articles that might be helpful.  also ensure you are cleaning the bedding with an enzyme cleaner. that is the only type that will totally remove the urine scent, and if he can still smell it, that could be why he keeps going on the bed.  how to solve litterbox problems in cats: the ultimate guide litterbox problems? here's why you should call your vet inappropriate peeing, spraying, toy obsession and leg and hand nipping spraying: when your cat uses urine to mark territory how to train kittens to use the litter box  combat cat urine how to get cat pee smell out of clothes and linens  
 thank you! i will try it.  
 maggie still eats and uses the litter box. so i need a new toy. what do your cats like? she only likes wand toys, not da bird. she likes to chase. doesn't even bother my cat peaches anymore. i used to hear a loud screech every night. maggie would run around and play by herself. she had her vaccines a month a go and my vet always gets her temp and weight during that. go cat catcher was her fav but she wont play anymore.i tried to get her to play with 5 different toys. no reaction. guess i'll make a vet appointment. i did go on an 11 day vaca a month ago. she had a pet sitter that came every day her playing stopped this week.  
 some cats simply stop playing as they mature. you could try food puzzles, which don’t give her much physical exercise but may still engage her.  
 had blood and urine done. my regular vet just had surgery so i won't hear back til tues. a different vet comes on thursdays  
 hopefully it's nothing, but it's better to err on the side of caution.  
 my cat loves the rainbow string too but he has chewed off and waten a piece   
   i think i annoy her. as soon as i turn my head she hides under my chair or closet!  
 i have bought many new toys and she is not interested. i used to chase maggie around my apt morning and night and wand toys throughout the day. used to be very playful and suddenly stopped. it could be stress. i might take her back to the vet. i did check her eyes in the dark and they seem fine. her first apt with blood work was by a different vet. i have been using feliway. i have dealt with a scared cat before but not depressed so i'm not sure what to do. i am going to start clicker training her again.  
 i studied and got some excellent ideas. scheduled play in a separate room, treat after play,cat nip,and ultimate peacemaker.  
 his name is murphy, cant believe i forgot to add that originally but it was 5am so that's my excuseee   
 heres my plan at the moment  add an extra litterbox (does it matter if it's near the other one? or is distance a good thing?)  if the added litterbox doesnt help, i'm going to dremel one to be even shorter and possible add a lip to retain litter and see if that helps.   thank you all for your help. myself and murphy greatly appreciate it.   extra picture as payment.  he absolutely loves being under blankets.  
 maybe there is a less bad option in cutting out the front side of the box to have a 3 sided tray? you wouldn't even need to cut out the whole front side of the tray, just a cat sized opening. you would need obviously a big pad underneath and there would be at least daily sweeping, but it might still be an improvement if the cat is peeing and pooping in the 3 sided tray. a small improvement perhaps, but better than nothing?  just trying to think outside the box...  
 i need help with my kitten. he is about 7 months old but really small and immature. his energy used to be cute but now he just gets on my nerves. all he does is run in and out of rooms, knock stuff over, attack me and other pets and try to steal food. he has started jumping on my counters and clawing furniture. i will not get him declawed for obvious reasons but i don't know what to do. he is also stressing out my older cat and attacks her and the dog. he hides under the couch and attacks peoples feet. he has also recently stopped using the litterbox. i have raised him since he was a month old and don't want to get rid of him but i can't deal with this anymore. i'm thinking about letting my neighbor take him. she has no other pets and maybe he will calm down there. i just want to know if this is a phase and if he will grow out of it. i have had many kittens through out my life but have never had one like this devil cat.  
 some stuff that might help:   first, feed them in opposite parts of the house. slowly bring their food closer together, until they get used to eating side by side. maintain separate litter boxes for the cats. make sure each cat has his own litter box at first. as they spend more time together, you will be able to get them to share a litter box. make sure that the cats' time together is a happy time. when the cats are together, you should feed them, give them treats, play with them, and give them lots of love and attention. they should associate their time together as a fun and pleasant time.   
 thanks for the tips. i think you are right on that my resident cat is jealous of the new cat. i will try your tips and see if that helps the problem.  
 toilet training is usually not suggested just in case your cat ever has territory issues. for cats, litterboxes aren't just their toilet, it's also how they mark their territory and feel like they own the place. just a thought in case you run into that issue in the future! otherwise, good luck!  
 *s p y n x cats require weekly baths.  
 ahh the first hiss. i still remember when gizmo first hissed at me when i was trying to play with him and he wasn't in the mood, i was so dejected i actually got teary eyed.  your kitty will forgive you, i promise! and if you're like me, you'll vow to spend the rest of your life ensuring you never hear another hiss.  
 okay if he's a spinx, i guess he's got to learn to endure baths. other cats only need them in emergencies - for example when they find the week old shrimp the neighbor threw out, or the skunk.  i use the kitchen sink and put a towel on the bottom of it so kitty doesn't slip. slipping is frightening. also the towel gives kitty something other than you to grab.  from what you said he reacted as i would expect a cat to react to a bath. actually, i'm impressed you got to the point of blow drying him. and that might be part of the problem. the air may have been too hot and almost burned him. test it on the inside of your wrist.  i never blow dry. just turn the heat up in the house until kitty has a chance to dry himself. some will happily use the bed to dry off, but towel drying takes care of most. you want to leave him a little damp so he'll learn to participate in grooming.  but here's the good thing, unless he's a spinx, since he was grooming this bath may have clicked the 'i've gotta groom' on in him. in my experience boy cats are less inclined to groom than girl cats. (my experience) one we had just wouldn't. i submerged all but his neck and head in tepid water then let him go. he dried himself. a week later it was clear he still wasn't grooming, so we did it again. after that he was with the program and grooming away with his litter mates. (he was about 6 months at the time and his mom was done with kitten washing.)  
 i think @mmin's cat is a scottish fold?  i wouldn't recommend trying to bathe cats in a shower stall, it's noisy and scary, but i am sure your kitten will forgive you! don't worry about his hissing.  @danteshuman gave good advice for baths. i also use the kitchen sink. some cats are good with the kitchen sink sprayer (easiest for me), some are better with water gently poured over them from a pitcher, and some are better in a basin partly filled with water. you may have to experiment to find out what your kitten prefers (or hates least). most cats don't need to be bathed often, though.  unless you have a cat with very long thick hair (like a persian) or you are bathing a cat for a show, you don't need to blow dry. use two towels as danteshuman suggested, then let the cat air dry in a warm place.  
 i don't know what kind of kitchen sink sprayer you guys are talking about but i have never seen one    i use my shower stall (that has a spray nozzle) because there's no way i could bathe him in the kitchen sink or the bath sink - those have no spray nozzles..   and yes! i have a scottish fold! but he hasn't bathed in about 4 months so i thought it would be good to give him one-   also, thank you for all your advice about the blow dry. never gonna try it again. saw it on a video where the owner blew dry his scottish fold and so i thought that it was necessary   
 i live in a pretty small studio apartment, so the kitchen area is super tiny too : / the sink is pretty shallow, and there's only one. but thank you! i should definitely have used the pitcher or cup.  
 is he eating a lot of dry food? maybe try increasing his canned food if the spraying continues.  
 he gets almost way to much wet food its all he cries after! he is a sauce lover he will eat some fry food, but mostly i think he waits around untill i give in and give him a almost soupy delicious treat i could try the other way, give more dry food, but i am afraid he is the type to starve himself if he does not get his way   
 i am kind of confused as to why this thread turned out to be about dry or wet food. if pepsi is healthy, not overweight, and has had no history of urinary issues, i think it would be safe to feed him both dry and wet. and, unless you see spraying inside the house as well and/or not using the litterbox when inside, this is not likely a urinary related issue.   if he is a grazer, leave some dry food out for him during the day, and concentrate the wet food for specific meals. if he does get hungry and realizes that the dry is the only thing available in between meals, i would think he will come to understand that and eat the dry. all of this is assuming, your other cat is also healthy, not overweight, and has had no history of urinary issues.   if you time feed him, give him some of both foods during each meal. if it does turn out that he repeatedly rejects the dry food when given both, then you probably will have to reverse course and up the amount of wet food.  
 it's all good. i wasn't mad. i don't know, it looked like spraying, he would back his butt up to things, wiggle it and spray. it went away when i lowered the dry food to under half a cup and increased his canned food.   
 a firm no and, if the kitten is on your lap / table / counter, place the kitten firmly on the floor.  more tips:  how to set healthy boundaries for your cat the dos and don'ts of cat behavior modification cats and discipline don't mix cat behavior for beginners how to keep cats off counters and tables  make sure that you are feeding your kitten plenty of food. 3 month old kittens are eating machines and need a lot of food for growth. most people agree that free feeding a growing kitten is best. both canned and dry can be fed. dry food is generally left out all day for snacking on.  some people foods are ok for cats but not all. familiarize yourself with this list people foods to avoid feeding your pets   some people feed their cats a raw or home cooked diet or even give small pieces of safe foods like plain cooked or raw meat, raw gizzards, and whole cooked eggs.  
 my cat does the name thing! he's even done it to guests when eating - very rude!  a firm no and taking him off the table/couch etc. has worked. only issue for me is a give in and let him try my chicken so he's good with my husband who is strict about it but not me   
 i ignore them and never ever give them table food- ever. some cats want the attention so even picking them up saying no etc is reinforcement for the behavior.  i have found that some cats at this age are horrible food nudges and they do grow out of it if i completely ignore them. this means no talking, no contact, no "oh you naughty little kitty, oh kitty we love you" sweet talk. if they are having a growth spurt even with constant access to cat food they could be pains in the rear bumper about food but months later its a non-issue.  
 well first of all, yeah, this is my first cat, i planned to take it in and feed just till it grows enough to defend itself but i cant let it go now, im too attached to him, so does he needs a playmate ? is it really necessary or he will grow up normally just alone ? and can you give me any tips on how to train him to come when i call ? i just dont know why he runs away from me, he only does that when outside, when he's in he comes and greet me as soon as he sees me and he sleeps on my lap, i dont let him inside rooms but i have a big garden where he lives and theres trees and grass and everything that a cat naturally lives in, also i keep buying him canned cat food and he'll not eat it at all, he eats only leftovers of what i eat and tuna/fish cans, is this diet okay ? or am i messing him up ? sorry if im asking too much, i just want to know wether im doing something wrong for him, thanks for helping me   
 last week, we purchased a male siamese kitten (9 weeks old) who is honestly the sweetest kitten i have ever met. from the first second we brought him into our home, you could tell he was comfortable. he didn't want to stay in one room, he wanted to explore and we haven't had a single issue. fast forward to yesterday and we decided to go pick him out a friend (another siamese kitten, also 9 weeks old but from a different breeder). we brought the little girl home last night and she instantly went into hiding. we have had her home for approximately 24 hours now and she still is in hiding. she is constantly meowing and i feel so horrible. is there something i can do to help her? some things i've read say to pick her up and cuddle her, let her know it's safe. but other things i've read say not to touch her and to let her come to me in her own time. does anyone here have experience with this? we have gotten her to come out from under the couch to eat briefly but only for a second or two while we were very still. she just cries under the couch and i feel so bad for her. what can i do to help?? i've tried enticing her with toys, treats, wet food, music, smooth talking, but nothing seems to be working. any help would be greatly appreciated!!  i attached a picture of both of them. our male (marco) is a seal point and the one where my hand is wrapped around him. our female (callie) is a tortie point siamese, unfortunately it won't let me upload her picture.   
 others will be by to help. hiding is normal, being afraid of a new house is normal, being suddenly taken from her litter mates and mom is terrifying. it's all so strange and different. she doesn't know what's going to happen to her.   no, do not feel guilty, you got this little girl and you care enough to help her through this. that makes your adopting her a good thing.   she's found a nice safe place. is it chilly where she's hiding? she's used to sleeping in the kitten pile with mom and sibs so she maybe chilly. if you have a microwave, fill a sock or two with rice and heat them until warm. put the socks in or near the kit's hiding place. if you don't have a microwave, use a hot water bottle.  put some towels and maybe a blanket near the hiding place, remember making forts as a kid? that's what you're building for her.  put her food, water and litter box close to the hiding place.   you can lie on the floor and just be there. you might sleep there. don't look into her eyes, that's a challenge. be there for her to come to you. let her check you out - this may take awhile - before you try to scoop her up.  if you can't bare her despair scoop her up, hold her against your chest, inside your sweater. let her feel the beat of your heart. you may get scratched, tiny claws it won't hurt much. she's very young. this is the method i'd use first and build the fort for the long term - rest of the night and tomorrow.  
 hi! also, along with the great advice you've received already--especially the warm rice filled socks, or a heating pad set on low and covered with a couple towels, --try giving your baby meezer a ticking clock. (if it's too loud muffle it with a towel.) hang in there  
 pictures of my two stray cats, slinky (black and white). she really only comes to me for food and pats when she wants too other wise i let her outside because she is street wise and grew up on the street (also she becomes distructive and very nervous /agitated if locked in)  grey and white is my little baby kitten lucifer. he is the biggest sook and is very cuddly. he generally stays inside and sits next to me or on me while i’m studying etc hahah. cotton and lucifer are very similar in personality but i worry they will get jealous of each other because they are both attention whores lol   there are 6-7 other cats on the street and i’ve seen slinky around 5 of them happily/co-exist. there is only two large tom cats that seem to chase or be chased/fight with her.  
 i'd probably do what feeby'sowner said, or develop faster reflexes. charlie is an absolute treat fiend. we buy longer treats the jerkey or meat stick treats are long tear strips so you can avoid the snap mouth, for the most part anyway.  
 if handing feeding him is important to you then use soft foods on a plastic spoon or popsicle stick rather than your fingers or use regular treats laid out on your flat palm.  
 i don't know where to start here. cat used to spray walls, and the feliway classic fixed that. now she likes to chase another cat up on top of the kitchen counter, then pee in that spot. about 1-3 times a month. would changing to the feliway multicat help this? would she go back to spraying the wall? do i need to use both?  this typically happens at night down stairs where they both stay mostly. she will push him off the mini cat tower by the window sometimes too. should i separate them at night? or put her on prozac? i thinks shes over stimulated, mad at the other cat or just cooky.  
 hi. if there are no health issues, then it sounds like stress based on the timing of these 'events'. even if he hung around the chimney guy, it might not be because he was comfortable with him, but rather 'keeping an eye on him'.   and, if he generally doesn't 'race' around the house first before the times he uses a litter box, is it possible he is far enough away from one that he just goes where ever he ends up instead - given some added stress factor?   i absolutely hate to side with the idea of confining him, but it might the best option at this point. just make sure he has food, water, litterbox(es), and toys/things to keep him busy in the confinement area - and that all of you spend plenty of time with him.  
 truly a pretty guy!!!   
 if stress is the issue, all the changes can't be helping. so, you are likely to encounter additional issues each and every time you change his environment. you have to find a stable, quiet, even keeled environment where he he getting all the basics he needs and a lot of attention. he needs slme stability, and the you can re-assess him and where to go from ther  
 he probably needs some consoling and reassurance that he has not been abandoned. i may be wrong, but if it were me, i would have to go be with him a while.  
 i hear you.......and i've been doing that with each change. but then he growls. i've never had a cat that growled   
 have you tried music for him?  
 i have not.   
 try the music, it does help. there are app relax my cat, harp music, musicforcats.com  
 oh oops, posted the same thing twice. wish there was an edit......oh well. sorry for the redundancy.  
 so, you said you'd tried the cat attract litter or had some on order?  you said right now, he's peeing in the box? this is a hugely terrific thing, and i'm so sorry you're so worn out from it all that you are out of energy to celebrate... (i'm still thinking he may need crate training to get him to do all of his business in the box, all of the time, but the crystals first...)  you were right then, regarding him not drinking enough, that he has crystals. i don't know, but getting that taken care of should help....geez i'm so keeping my fingers crossed for you!! he may be associating the box with pain from the crystals. this could explain his running around and then pooping/peeing, in other words, trying to run away from the pain.   in the meantime, can you add low/no sodium clam juice, or low/no sodium tuna juice (there's a good brand that's low mercury called safecatch) to the water bowl? --ask your vet if this ok, as the meds and food you get will be changing the ph of his urine and you don't want to offset that goal.  you could also try adding a tablespoon or so of water to his food. he doesn't sound picky but you might test this to see how much water you can add before he says no, momma, that's too soupy   also i wanted to mention, try filtered water. if you have room in your fridge try a filter pitcher (just be sure to deep clean it now and then to avoid any buildup). some cats have preferences about how their water tastes, and some cats are ok with their water at room temp but some like it better when it's cold.  if he shows a liking for the filtered water you could make ice cubes from it and use those in his bowl, and / or freeze some unseasoned-no salt broth, clam juice or tuna juice...you'll just need to try some different things for him, again double checking with the vet first.  you really got my heart when you said he lights up when you visit.  play some music for him if you aren't already, and keep telling him this will all be over just as soon as possible.  
 yes, but he only used that box a couple of times. (sorry, missed this question in my previous reply)  and thanks for the info regarding editing. i'm almost to 25 posts!! heh.   
 just a quick note, if you want to leave canned food out for longer you could set up a dish arrangement where there is an ice pack underneath the food dish.  
 he gobbles down all his wet food all at once, so no worries about it going bad in the dish    
   frankie in the sink.  
 i'm pretty discouraged this morning. my fear that he would poop in the sink again came to fruition.  why won't he poop in the box without encouragement?? i got him to go yesterday morning but i had to prompt him. he pees regularly in the box but not #2. i'm not sure how much longer i can do this   
 he's used one for both. i did have two boxes in there with him but since the room is kinda small i took one out.  
 maybe it is time to move him to a new more roomy confinement spot, if such a place exists in your home? if he more or less back to good health, the confinement in such a small area could be contributing to this behavior. just throwing ideas out there...  
 i can't do this any more.  
 i am sorry you feel that you can't do this anymore. if that is truly what you feel in your heart and gut, please check vets and rescue center (no kill) that could take him, and give him a home that can better deal with his issues. whatever you do, please let us know.  
 shucks, i lost my support team......  would love any input. thanks in advance.  
 for tonight we are trying water in the sink and a few more litter boxes. i put the box that he first used successfully for 4 days straight in there along with another with cat attract litter. i gave him a box with new tidy cat litter as well. my vet friend said if he's consistently using the boxes while water is in the sink then we don't have to crate him. please god let this work...........  
 thank you.   
 hi. get a new stopper! - to begin with. he, for whatever reason, has an aversion to using the litter box for pooping. maybe try puppy pads, in addition to the litter boxes? at first just put a pad on the floor - and if that works then you can put one inside a very low sided cardboard box? if he starts to use that (that is, if you can get the sink to stay filled up), you might just be looking at a cat that will not use a 'traditional litter box' for pooping - or at least not in the near future.  i've lost track - is he on any sort of urinary health care food - stress related or not? if so, that could also take some time to take effect and help with the crystals.   just remember what you've told us about how his eyes light up and he is all happy and purrs, purrs, and purrs, when you spend time with him. that in itself is reward enough!!  
  to be sure - about being exhausting. but, hang in there. was there any poop in the litter box at all?   if he goes nearby the scratching post but still by the toilet tank, you might want to 'bite the bullet' and buy some puppy pads to lay in that area instead of the post.   to get him to at least consistently go on a puppy pee pad starts the process of learned behavior, and can be adjusted with a few tweaks (like placing a low sided box underneath the pad, and if successful adding a tad bit of litter, etc.) and eventually get him to go routinely in a litter box.   you will get this figured out!!  
 you're not hijacking my thread. i welcome any and all stories. i just feel so bad for him that he's stuck in "hell" and he can't get out until he uses the box. we keep trying to tell him this....  more poops all over the toilet tank, a couple on the floor this morning. i flushed them down the toilet and left. i put foil all over the toilet seat and tank as well as on top of the upside down litter box...........he still went on the foil and was lying on top of the upside down litter box when i went and visited him about an hour ago.  anyone know where i can find a cheap dog crate? that is next for him i guess.   
 thanks so much for your reply!! he only had soft stools when he was stressed. they've since turned solid, thankfully! interesting about the wood pellet litter. i will have to check into that. where do you find that? frankie also doesn't seem to like the clumping kind and yes, drat, drat, drat! it's so much easier to clean but i will bow to his wishes and get whatever he likes which seems to be tidy cat non-clumping. but you've piqued my curiosity about the wood pellet litter so i may try that too.  i really think frankie's litter box issues have been medical. the previous owners returned him when he was having accidents and i am pretty sure that was due to him having a parasite because the humane society treated him for giardia as soon as he arrived at their shelter. then he formed crystals in his urine due to the stress of moving into our house. oh and btw, he definitely is a very clean cat! you can tell that he spends time grooming himself. when we started this confinement and he had those loose stools, it was on his tail but by the next day he had cleaned that all up!! and i've always heard that a well groomed cat is a happy cat. so your cat that spends a lot of time cleaning himself up means he's a happy sort    
  go frankie (and, i mean in the litter box)!!  
 me too!!!   
  day 4 success!!!! on to day 5. yay frankie!!!   i'm thinking hubby is going to try and convince me to let him out into another room saturday (day 6) instead of sunday which would be a full week. my vet friend said one week and another friend said the same. we shall see!!!  
 once again, congratulations frankie!!!!!!!   on to day 5!   you can debate with your hubby on day 6 - but, warn him that if frankie messes up that it will totally be his fault!!  
 i wish jackson galaxy would see this thread, then throw in his thoughts. may be even place frankie in one of his episodes.  i totally understand the frustration! i was behind this laptop, cheering the little guy on!  pops  
 is it even remotely possible that he had to go before the box was cleaned out (even if it was only pee)???? some cats just hate a box with anything in it. since he went in the box for 4 days, i am hoping day 5 failure was because the box wasn't cleaned out in time. although many cats can get into a daily routine of when they pee and poop, not all do - and, even those that typically go around the same time during the day can have a change in habit now and again.  confer with your hubby and look for anything that might have just slightly changed. maybe he got less attention (unintentionally) on the days he used his box?  4 days is a great start! and, tbh, even if he would manage to get 7 days in a row does not mean there won't be a few more stumbles after that. you have to understand, this could take months. not saying that to discourage you, or encourage you to give him away - just the opposite. i am saying it because if you work at this long enough, you will succeed. from everything you've said he is enjoyable otherwise.  
 thank you.   
 ohmygosh, ohmygosh, ohmygosh!!! don't get my hopes up! huge frankie update!!   today was day five of the third round in confinement hoping he could make it to 7 days. i spoke with a behavior guy from the humane society and he said there is no magical number and the 7 days is a guide, depending on the cat. and there have been other signs of progress. until this week he had not been covering up his excrements but this week he is. plus today he finally went #2 on his own and without anyone with him. yay frankie!!  so tonight we went there. yep, we took him into the next room before we introduce the rest of the house. got some toys and scratching pads. he explored and played with us all a little bit. in all, he lasted about 40 minutes. he found sort of a cave looking spot and stayed there for several minutes so it was time to put him back in his "studio apartment", the basement bathroom.  so, we are hopeful yet again and really hope it works out!! here are some photos from his first venture out in 3 weeks.      
 go frankie! he looked very relaxed in the photos.  
 yeah, go frankie! man he's a big cat!  pops  ps thanks for the update! ...     
 he is a bit cat!! 16 pounds and he's supposed to lose 2-3 pounds.   
 yep.  and that's big not bit.........oy........   
 thanks fur the update! is there a window in the basement? i was thinking, may be you could get him a tree, placed along a window so he can sit and look outside, kind of thing.  i don't have any experience with calming collars, but collars in general makes me nervous. i worry it'll get caught on something, and then well, you know what? ... fur example, the only time my dogs has a collar on is when we're outside. once we're back in the motor home, i take them off.  anyways, thanks for the update, and can't wait to see a few pitchers of the boy!  pops  
 he's getting awfully restless in the bathroom so i think on friday we'll let him out onto our main floor and move the kiddie gate to the doorway of our upper level so he doesn't go up there. and if that goes okay, then the same on saturday and sunday. the bathroom has a glass block window as do most of the windows in our basement. i wish i had a place for him to sit by a window and look outside.   i'm thinking i will take the collar back. here's a photo from last friday. he's sitting on an upside down picture that hangs on the wall, that we've never hung up. it was given to my daughter when she was a child and we've never had a spot to hang it.     
 would you have an old cabinet, or a what-u-mah-call-it thing, or something that's tall enough to reach the window? it'll give him a place to sit, or chill out while checking out what's going on outside. goodwill type of store may have something inexpensive that may work. anyways, just a thought.  he's looking good! ...   pops  ps ok, now i remember what the what-u-mah-call-it thing is; shelves. ....  ... dual purpose, yes? ...   
 oh excellent!! thanks so much! even when he's no longer confined he'll want to play so yea........thanks!   
 i hope you all had a happy thanksgiving! i just got done cleaning up! and thought i'd give an update and a new photo.  we decided to let frankie roam the main level a day earlier: wednesday. i took the afternoon off to start the feast prep and we let frankie keep me company. ha ha!! he spent his two hours going back and forth from the dining room window to the living room window, fascinated with the birds in the trees and shrubs. ah, a cat's life huh? wish all i had to do was stare out the window, but i digress   then yesterday he had rule of the entire house. why not? we were all here and all we were doing was cooking and getting ready for our turkey feast. so far, so good with the darling boy. he does disappear from time to time and when we go looking for him we find him in our "band room", the room with the dart board. that was his second room he was confined to and i guess he feels safe in there? we also decided to put the kiddie gate at the top of the stairs to the basement for when our friend was here to eat with us. i didn't want frankie to freak out over a new person. he came to the top of the stairs at one point and i had our friend go greet him. just to familiarize him with another person that comes over and that went okay.  the roaming has pretty much stopped. and he is so much happier being free. of course!! we've still been putting him "to bed" overnight in his studio apartment and i'm not sure how long to keep that up. maybe this weekend? does anyone have any opinions on that? his only accident in the last two weeks was caused, we think, by us forgetting to clean his boxes. so we have to pay attention to that big time with this guy i guess.  thanks for any opinions/advice on trusting him overnight. here's frankie on thanksgiving day:    
 maybe he'll just go back to sleeping with you! that's what my feeby does! i tell her it's time for bed, she goes for a midnight snack, and then heads for the bed!  
 sophie will bite every now and then. not hard though. when she does i say ow! and then i tell her that there is no biting in friendship. she looks at me like i'm crazy. she's a smart girl.   
 hello everyone,   my 3 and a half year old ragdoll cat has small mast cell tumors. he has six removed on wednesday. he normally is under a conscientious sedation to have these removed, but the vet decided to put him fully under because of the amount he had to remove.   well, he has been weird every since. it is better than the first day, but now i have a different cat.   ragdolls (he looks like a long haired siamese) are super laid back. he is super slow, and super lazy naturally. now, i have a cat that runs from place to place, he rubs against my legs, or the walls with great affection everywhere he walks, he looks outside for the birds, and when there are none there he moves his head around like he sees them, and he cannot be held or cuddled because he cannot tolerate being still for longer than 5-10 seconds. i also noticed he has a very, very slight twitch to his head every once in a while.  i am very unhappy about this change. he was never like this under conscientious sedation. it has been about 72 hours since he had the surgery. has any one else experienced something like this? did your cat ever eventually go back to normal. i really appreciate any words of wisdom.   erika from ohio  
 thank you, susan!  
 no identified issues... seen a vet but not on this specific issues ... just for vaccination and health check ...   
 hang in there-you and kitty will find your new normal and it will be better than before  
 three months old is still a baby. babies have needs like needing the comfort of their siblings and moms. babies are afraid because they have no experience and the world is very new to them so they don't know who to trust. think about how you would feel and react to things if you had opened your eye for the first time just 6 weeks earlier. kittens need to be protected and guided while they grow, that is your job now.  
 of course, the cat should be considered. however, with what you are facing (family pressure), i'm not sure keeping him will be possible. and i'm with you 100%, declawing is not an option, and would only lead to other, and maybe worse, issues. it would be very unfair to keep him confined to one room all the time unless that room was just full of enriching things...trees, toys, window perches, maybe with a cat door leading out to a catio. would your family be willing/able to talk about an arrangement like that? if not, let me know and i'll be happy to research reliable no-kill shelters or rescues in your area, as a very last resort. i know your heart is breaking, and i'm sending a hug across the miles.  
 my nephew was fine, no stitches but they went to the hospital in case it might become an infection. my cat does like to play rough! before this, my nephew grabbed his tail and he swatted back at him. no one saw it happen, my family only heard him cry. but my cat does try to avoid my nephew when he strolls by, it's my nephew that's curious (which, he's a child so i know he's curious, it's not his fault. also his other grandmother has a cat too but that one is very affectionate and doesn't mind being touched and so by my nephew).  besides the 2 month waiting period, my mom's other concern is the furniture. i just replied to someone else's reply on this thread about her concerns. i think if i can appeal to her and find a way to protect the new couches she might let him stay.   
 have you tried rubbing some cat nip into the scratching posts? make them really attractive for him. it might even work to place the posts in front of the furniture (blocking the areas he likes) then slowly moving the posts away. i don't know if this is even doable in your situation, but when we slapped up a small area for our cats to go outside (fenced, covered, cat proof) and threw some big old logs/tree branches/"natural" scratching posts, 99% of the scratching indoors stopped. you seem to know that cats need to scratch, it stretches their shoulders, backs, necks, etc. it's like waking up after a good nights sleep and having a long, slow stretch. it's healthy and refreshing. does he like food treats? dry food? if you can find something like this (pure bites treats is another good one) that he goes nuts over, a little plastic empty water bottle without the cap can be filled up with food/treats and it challenges them to figure out how to get that food out. you can cut holes all over the bottle at first to make it easy, and when he masters it, cut less holes in the next bottle, etc.   
 he's had catnip before, in treats, but i never knew what to do with actual catnip before so i never bought any. i'll look into outdoor scratching posts, he goes out at nights so maybe that will help. i understand scratching is important and he should be able to scratch. our posts might just need to be replaced and maybe i can get him used to it by using catnip. i'm just scared that now that he's used other surfaces to scratch for a while now, he'll be used to it and won't wanna change or adapt and it'll all have been done for nothing.  he likes both dry and wet foods, and he's picky about his treats. i remember sometimes buying him those temptations treats, and we still have some left because he's stopped liking them. then again, it might be another brand issue. he loves to eat so maybe i can use this to my advantage. thank you sooooo much!   
 oh, so who is taking care of the cat while you are gone - your sister? if she doesn't want to see him go, you might want to encourage her to spend more time with him while you are gone. he, as you know already, needs attention.   play toys...well, they come and go. sometimes, you can keep "older toys" in a box and recycle them as new ones become old to the cat. other times, like one of my cats, she instantly knew it was an old toy (smell, i guess) and wasn't impressed i was trying to recycle it. a lot of time stupid things like plastic caps (bigger ones) from bottles will entertain them, as well as anything 'weird' that they can't actually eat. old thread spools, for example. my husband even gives feeby his old cardboard contact boxes - although he is pretty much worn those out with her. cardboard tissue/paper towel rolls, crumpled up foil, wadded up newspaper. the list is endless...and, typically, all temporary.   also, try horizontal scratching posts - and add catnip to those too. feeby has had one since i got her, but admittedly now she just goes over there when she wants catnip - never uses it to scratch.  
 my sister looks after him when i'm not there. she changes his litter, feeds him, gives him water, cleans after him (after learning from me). i had a talk with my sister telling her that she needs to join me in resisting my parents, and i hope that this will make her pay more attention to him. he deserves it.   i'll look into scratching posts this weekend at the store. hopefully if i do this he'll get used to it and scratch there instead. i'm scared he won't.   
  the old saying, "never spend money on cat toys" is so true here. ours love boxes (filled with packing paper, news paper, or tissue paper, makes a cool noise) and plastic rings from bottle caps (milk, pepsi, etc.), balls of wadded up foil, or anything i grab up and go "no, this is mine" (they immediately want it. ) another idea is, if your cat likes catnip, is to "soak" the toy in the catnip for an hour or two.   
 maybe i am a bad person...seems like after reading comments my opinion is gonna be hated. my cat is my life and i could never give him away. i know its inhumane but if those were only options i would declaw. my reasoning is i could not live without my kitty. i would take a bullet for him.  i of course in normal circumstances am against declawing but i mean i can’t lose my baby. hope i didn’t offend anyone here.  
 what a handsome boy he is!  unless the new furniture is velvet or some such, the best thing is the double-sided sticky tape. it's a bit of a drag, but it only has to stay in place for a very few days before a cat learns that it does not feel good on the pawsies at all. try that in conjuntion with scratching posts...make sure the posts are tall enough for him to get a good stretch in! that's often what makes furniture so appealing to them. scratching not only helps to keep claws in good shape, it provides an opportunity to really stretch those muscles out.    pleasehelpmeandmycat said: ↑  also, thank you for the comment. i was not expecting any replies to this and reading it made me emotional. i love my cat very much and i wish my love was representative of my family.click to expand...  sweetie, that's what we are here for! you are not alone in this anymore, there is a whole community at your back, ready to help any way that we can.  try him, if you haven't already, with a wand toy, such as da bird. the trick here is to really get into this...imagine you are a bird (or mouse, or lizard, depending on the "prey" on the string)...flutter and soar, or skitter and scamper that thing! very few cats, including my furry little soccer ball, can resist this. play hard with him 2-3 times a day, until he is pretty worn out. it's a great way to bond, lets him do the "hunt, catch, kill" thing without damaging family members, and works off some energy. teach your sister how to do this, as well!   
 hello and welcome to tcs. sorry you're dealing with your cat's aggression, particularly when it included your 7 year old.   is the kitten male or female? how old is it now? has it been neutered/spayed? do the kitten and older cat get along ok?  did anything change in your household around the time her attacks started?   does she seem well, otherwise? eating, drinking, sleeping, using the litter box normally? if anything seems off, a vet checkup might be a good idea to ensure she's not unwell.  tcs has several articles that might have some tips for you. i'll post the links below.  why do cats attack? cat aggression toward people  is your cat stressed out? potential stressors in cats - the ultimate checklist six surefire strategies to reduce stress in cats  35 signs that your cat may be in pain  
 is she spayed? is the chair blocking the litterbox, can she get to it okay? maybe try giving her some canned food, if she doesn't get any already.  
 if the litter is clumping and you keep it deep enough, it shouldn't smell. are you going to get her spayed? canned food might help with the peeing problems.  
 can you tell her you'll clean the box frequently?  — she will say it’s a no go. she doesn’t want anyoneee knowing we have litter box so they stay in the back two bed rooms. i’ve already tried.  
 yeah, there might be lower cost clinics, but the one here costs $145.  
 hmmmm. the only thing i can think of is to try and ensure that she has access to a litter box somehow, either an extra one in your room as the other kittens grow or by making sure she can get to the original one. can you do work around the house etc and make some money that way?  
 i so totally agree with everything @greylady has said, especially about finding homes for the other kitties. if you can do this, be sure and find homes for them where you can be super sure the new owners will keep them, love them, and care for them.  not to make you feel bad about people, that's not my intent, it's just something to be aware of and careful of, but there are some who will present themselves as totally normal that look for cats being given away for free and sell them to product testing facilities.  you're smart, you'll find a way to work this out, i think. let us know what happens, we're rooting for you!  
 i did get chaos, the son, neutered back in august...he was 7 months when we got him neutered. we didn’t want him having kittens with his sister. step mom and dad really are probably never going to get on board with taking momma cat to the vet because all the wrecks were having in the house and then the fact she’s just has her mind set that momma cat can’t possibly get sick.  
 i know right and thank you!! everything went okay today as far as i know but i’ll probably update again in about a week or so to let you know if she’s using her box because i really hope she does. i don’t want her going outside.  
 just another thought. a lot of the cat shelters will help you with the cost on spay or neuters if you contact them and explain your situation. i know the cat shelter i work at now, does this, and so do some others in my town. but they don't advertise it. however, if a person will bring their kitty on the day the shelter tells them they can spay their cat, the shelter will bring along other people's cats to get spayed/neutered on that day. you have to look up the names of your shelters in your town (online and get their phone numbers) and then call and make arrangements. it would be well worth it, because a spayed or neutered cat is often not nearly as moody when they heal up afterwards! good luck on all this and i hope you can find homes for the other little ones soon! (those same shelters you call to find out about spaying your kitty, may help you and take the kittens for you!) yes. good luck!  
 oh i'm so sorry to hear this! hang in there, and hopefully you'll be able to get her to the vet soon. we're keeping our fingers crossed for you!! can you see if your dad would let you borrow some money, and then work it off in some way, so you can get her in sooner?  
 from what i remember that happens sometimes but i don't know if there's a way for you to deal with the obstruction. can you give your vet a call and see what they say?  
 my concern would be mastitis (infection); there are other possible explanations, but that's my first thought in a lactating cat. she would need to see a vet, who would be the only one who can diagnose this and it would need to be treated if it is.   
 i think we’re okay. it all went down later that night. i personally think the threebjust didn’t nurse off that boob that day.  
 i do not think she wants to hurt me as i was very shocked when she ran instead of attacking. she usually runs and hides under my bed. she actually stayed under my bed for the first two days so i know this is a safe space for her. she doesn't even try to attack my feet when i get on the bed. i tried to give her treats yesterday and today and of course she would not come from under the bed to take them. i will just move very slowly around her and hope within a few days this will pass by. when she gets like this i get very scared to get close to her or walk pass her and its extremely uncomfortable.   
 please do not bring her to a shelter just because she's having an extended reaction after being frightened. it's only been a day, and she's not trying to hurt you -- she's just scared.  think about how terrified she would be in a shelter, without you or anything else she knows, when simply adjusting to a new apartment has been difficult for her.  she will calm down. give her love, and leave her in her safe space when she wants to be there, but keep talking to her in a soothing voice. if you act like something is wrong, she'll sense that too.  
 she has just done it to me again. i have been very cautious around her taking slow and gentle steps. its like she watched me all day just to hiss and growl at me and its very creepy. i am curious as to why she is all of a sudden doing this. its really scaring me.   
 i sure hope so lol she is resting under my bed right now and i hate to say this but i only feel safe around the apartment when she is sleep. idk what randomly triggers her hissing and growling. we will be so fine and then out of no where she does this. i am both worried and scared. i called the pet adoption place in tears today. i would hate to have to give her up because of this. especially because i purchased her off of craigslist from a couple who was moving and their new complex did not accept pets. i would hate to have her go through something similar again smh   
 hissing and growling she's saying she's scared too. she hasn't done anything physical and probably doesn't want to. does she enjoy string toys or fetch? get her play hunting toys. play sessions will build confidence and connection for both of you.  brew up some chamomile tea for both of you. just make sure to use the bags the other type is poisonous to cats.  
 cats more more flight then fight, if she was going to attack you she would have by now. she is trying to seem scary to show you she is tough. get a calming collar to put on her when the is being lovey, or get a couple feliway plug ins ideally to calm her down, keep a laser pointer and treats in your pocket so when you need to walk by her, you can direct her the opposite way with the laser. treats to reward her when she lets you pet her.  
 she is an indoor cat so she does not interact with other animals. the hissing and growling is so random and didnt start until last night - 9 days since we have moved in. thats why i am so confused about it. i am afraid to even pet her anymore or pick her up because of fear she might switch up in that moment and attack.   
 my cat has me wrapped around her dirty pink claw, when it's time for dinner she looks at me and wails a horrible meow like she's dying or something, and if you don't do it quick enough, she just glares at you like you the worst maid she ever had and is considering of letting you out of her service. but all jokes aside, i hope your problem gets fixed, because i could imagen the feeling of you family suddenly turning against you.   
 i hope so too, because i don't know which is scarier: and angry cat, or an angry dog. probably the cat.   
 don't take your cat's fear so personally. she hasn't actually attacked you, and she most likely won't. she's just scared, and in an unfamiliar place. if you feel like a prisoner in your own home, as a rational adult human, imagine how she feels - as a cat. she has no idea why you both moved, and no idea why, when she was feeling comfortable enough to hunt and make herself at home, you startled her. she may even think you were the one to exhibit aggression first (that is, if she isn't simply afraid of your feet.) she may have had a scary experience with a shoe before you adopted her, or been abused. there's just no knowing what goes through a cat's head, but it is certainly not that she's angry or hateful towards you.   i know that moving has probably been stressful for you as well, but at least you understand what's going on.  when you adopted her, you promised her that you'd take care of her no matter what. you've been together for three years, so don't let one bad day, or one bad behavior make you surrender her to a shelter, where there is a very great chance she'll be euthanized. staying calm, and being patient, is the best thing for both of you right now.  
 i can understand that i startled her last night but why did she even hiss at me today. i am dreading going home as i know she will probably be up.   
 no one enjoys being hissed at, but again, it's only been a day.  it's also possible that she's been injured somehow. you didn't mention the kind of insect she was playing with, but is there a chance she was bitten or stung?   
 okay something just happened. she is out in the kitchen which has become her new routine. she loves to lay on the kitchen floor at night. i had to go in there to put my cup in the sink. i walked past her spread out body with confidence. but when i was at the sink she actually ran into the living room and hid behind a box. i just walked right by her (well i actually went a little farther away) but i walked by without paying much attention to her. no hissing or growling thank god. i went into the bathroom, secretly hoping she would not be outside the door waiting for me and she was not. i hope she see's these moments as me walking by her with no issue as i am not a threat to her and she can be more comfortable. i hate that both she and i are uncomfortable now.   
 have you read through some of the articles at tcs about stressed cats and stressed people? sometimes the interplay between the two is the issue and if you can calm yourself down, or do things to decrease your own worry and tension, it might help her relax more, too. you, your cat and stress cat aggression toward people    
    
    
  since cats read out moods, they have to alert and aware to survive, she can sense your fear. if you, the biggest person (cat) she knows is afraid, there must be something horribly, terribly big, dangerous and probably deadly somewhere in this new space. in her mind, it's out to get both of you. more, since you've never hidden under the bed, you don't know how to hide. the only thing she can do to protect both of you is to hiss and growl.  remember cats are prey to a lot of creatures and they know it. it makes them tense sometimes, alert almost always.  
  what an excellent and insightful peek into the feline mindset. it just makes so much sense!    
 i have been much more confident today. no hissing and growling thank goodness although i still do get a little nervous around her. especially going into the bathroom as this is where she cornered me when she first started the aggressiveness two nights ago. i can see by the way she moves she is still getting used to things. i feel so bad that i had to move but i am hoping she will get used to things pretty soon.   
 don't beat yourself up over it. cats are forgiving. it just takes them a minute.    sweetlilly123 said: ↑  but going into the next day i was literally doing nothing.click to expand...  ah, but now she was associating her fright with you, rather than what you did. as you remain calm and confident around her, that will grow less and less until she lets it go entirely.   
 whats going on?  
 i find extremely hard to believe that he is doing this to entertain himself - he is a cat, not a person. there is something in your bed that is making him sneeze, some sort of allergen.  he is probably darting because you react, and he is afraid of you.   
 thank you for your responses. however, we are very clean people and it just started happening. i still stand by the theory that he finds it hilarious.  
 nobody is saying that you are not clean - however, he is a cat, not a human being. something is making him sneeze, and you can believe it or not... your cat, your mind, your call.   
 hi carolinalima,  i agreed with you. of course you are not clean - he is a cat, not a human being. something is making him sneeze.... make comfortable.  
 i know what you mean, two of our kitties sneeze if the house gets dusty and the quantity of snot that blow out of there little noses is amazing. i have to regularly dust under my bed and behind the shelve and in all the other strange places the kitties like to hang out.  
 hi! you could try some music, there's an app called relax my cat, or musicforcats . com. also maybe there's something in these;  how to introduce a kitten to an older cat  how to successfully introduce cats: the ultimate guide  
 hey,   kolover said: ↑  hi all,  i have some questions and i’m hoping you all could help me. i just got a kitten in july. he is currently 5 months old. my sister and her cat live with me. my sister’s cat oojo is 3 years old and she is very quiet. she had to be removed early from her mom for her safety, thus, hasn’t had a lot of interaction with other cats. oojo has a bit of anxiety and doesn’t do well with strangers. she sometimes plays with him and chase each other without hissing or growling. but, sometimes khafre stalks her and jumps on her. that’s when she jumps and starts hissing. how can i stop him from jumping on her? what can i do to help oojo with her anxiety?   thanks,click to expand...     
 hey, i am sorry, new to this, didn’t mean to just say hey before haha. i would treat her as a human with anxiety. a lot of comfort, positive reinforcement would help, have you taken her to a vets about this? there are medications out there for cats with anxiety, but as a human who suffers with anxiety i wouldn’t take medication myself.  i would ensure when she’s around it’s a fairly quiet and calm environment, she has a comfortable hiding space to go when she needs some time out and you seperate both kitten and herself whenever you feel the younger one is getting too much and too playful.  good luck, i hope she improves soon!   
   we have done all of that. still khafre jumps on oojo.   
 hi!  is your girlfriend hopefully ok? i'm sorry that happened    when she approaches kitty next time, ask her to try and not stress about anything. this cat will be a major sponge for emotions, and even if he doesn't understand the reasons, he'll know she's stressed out and that will worry him and make him nervous.  along with @karenkat 's excellent advice including to allow this kitty to work things out at his own pace, and don't pick him up, try low volume classical harp music or the app relax my cat.  sit on the floor in the room, don't look at him but read poetry to him. this could be either of you, both of you...absolutely yes, he'll get better - he's already learning how to purr and what it's like to be petted. that's incredibly awesome for a kitty that's gone through all this !  also there are calming products available that have lots of different ingredients and come in sprays, diffusers etc. some of the ingredients are tryptophan, casein, valerian, chamomile - all non-drugging. if you decided on feliway be aware that some cats aren't effected by it, and amazon has a lot of third party fake products.  how to safely break up a cat fight  
 in addition to the link that @furballsmom provided, we use a large piece of cardboard, a pillow or a towel to separate a cat fight. that way your hands are not between the teeth and claws, and the chances of injury are less.  
 forgot to add brushing! she loves it. coco will purr and kneed her paws. i have to use baby blankets i got at petco.she needed lots of tic. beautiful mixed egyptian mau. 4yrs old   sparkly eyes  
 i would toss them. you can probably pick up used copies for cheaper than the amount of enzyme cleaner it would cost to clean them. and hopefully you are using an enzyme cleaner. it’s the only thing that really works. if you don’t have a black light, pick up one and shine it throughout your place. anywhere there is urine will glow so you know every place you need to clean.  
 how long since he was neutered? it will take a few weeks for the hormones to be gone from his body. and once they are, the super stinky urine smell will be gone. and, hopefully, so too will be his urge to spray. meanwhile, as @susanm9006 mentioned, ensure you use an enzyme cleaner, otherwise he will still be able to smell his scent and could spray there again.  here's a few tcs articles with more info: combat cat urine how to remove cat urine how to remove cat urine odor from your home how to get cat urine smell out of carpet: effective, non-toxic solutions  also, are you doing a slow introduction between him and your other cat? that is the best way to ensure they'll get along.  how to successfully introduce cats: the ultimate guide introducing cats to cats  condolences on the loss of tiger.  rip sweet boy.  if/when you feel up to it, we have a crossing the bridge forum where you can post a tribute to him.  
 have you done a reintroduction? i sounds like your old her could use some time in the house with the youngster in a safe room.  how to fix an unsuccessful cat introduction  
 how long have the two cats lived together and how old are they? i just dealt with a similar issue with my cat and my niece's cat.  
 also she will initiate play but will hiss anyways. it like she is giving him mixed signals  
 find his favorite thing. it was no fun trying to get to a cat under the bed. the treat was a guarantee and followed by praise. after a successful few minutes, i shut the door and played with angus out in the living room. he lost interest in riddle. i'm not sure what i would have done if that hadn't worked.   
 thanks for those tips and articles! i’ve known that cats live to their 20s but i figured it wasn’t common. glad to know that he has a long time to trust humans and get his forever home! i did get him some chicken freeze dried treats so i’m glad to hear that those will be good for him!  
  .  
 hey there! i adopted a super super shy girl about 9 weeks ago now, and i'm so glad to hear that another 'difficult' kitty is getting a good home. my thread asking for help is up here under "extremely skittish cat" and we've had some adventures since hen!   here are my tips from what i've seen over the last two months or so, including some hard-earned lessons from experience...  -i didn't know to do this with my girl, but it's best to keep him in one room until he's more comfortable - and that also makes it easier to bond with him, since he'll be less overwhelmed. you can sit in the room and talk to him, read to him, or just take a nap; it made rosa comfortable with being in the same room as me.  -the first few nights might be tough. rosa yowled all night for a few nights. i've read since then that this is a normal reaction to stress and being taken to a totally new place, since cats are very territorial. get some earplugs and just wait it out.  -i've made the most progress getting rosa to relax with slow blinking (do you understand how your cat says “i love you”?) - it's sometimes the only thing that reassures me that we're doing okay!   -sometimes it will seem like he's not making any progress. that's okay. he is making progress. just keep telling yourself that you have all the time he needs. from his perspective - he has never had a good reason to trust humans. since being turned in he's been locked in strange-smelling cages and rooms, poked and prodded by doctors, visited by different people who smell like other cats - and all of that after a lifetime of possible neglect or abuse. it will seem slow, but he will get better and he will make progress, on his own schedule. you just have to be patient.  -flea prevention! lol. i've had a flea crisis this week and, looking back, i'm reasonably sure that rosa probably either brought them home from the rescue or the previous tenant of my apartment had a cat who had them. a topical treatment is great prevention.  good luck and thanks for taking a chance on an older, difficult to adopt boy. <3  
 okay awesome, good to know. he was just treated for fleas so i don't believe he has any now, but will need the meds in about a month again. it's funny how similar our cats are in temperament, because this little guy is the same. very skittish, loves to growl and hiss, but doesn't take action just flees far away.  i believe they look very similar too, if i found your original post i believe yours is a tuxedo looking black and white, and mine is a grey and white kitty with a little white mustache! maybe they're twins from another life! haha  
 i think mine brought some eggs with her from the rescue, but just keep up with the flea treatment and you won't have a problem! i only warn because of the trauma i have experienced. (not to mention the trauma my cat has experienced - the vacuum running for two days in a row when i've very carefully been sweeping for the last couple of months because she hates the noise! i'm sure she'd tell you how awful it is... if she would come out from under my bathtub right now. lol)  mine is grey and white too actually! this is her:     when she's sleeping you can't see the white at all so she looks like a grey floof, but when she stands up you can see that she actually has a batman mask    good luck with your boy - i'm sure he's going to make you really happy even if it moves super slow. i love watching rosa make progress! everything with these kittycats is earned - so it feels great when they finally make something happen.   
 it's possible he was a much loved kitty by the owner who passed and is traumatized by their loss. bless you for taking him in, keep us updated and post lots of photos. what is his name?  
 i do believe all the bad teeth were pulled, leaving him with a few molars and only his bottom two canines and that's it. woke up this morning absolutely delighted to see he had eaten all his food and used the litter box! looks like he explored a bit last night which is extremely uplifting and means he is not absolutely terrified. i did get him some temporary pain killers that i am putting in his food, but it'll only last about 6 days and hopefully we will be able to get him on a longer term oral pain killer.. he has not growled or hissed once since he has been home, but sadly i have not seen him out personally and to be completely honest i've never seen his full body! he had always been in a ball or in a corner hidden in the shelter so i am excited to see if he has any cool marks on his tail or back paws    
  no real progress!? quite the contrary! you and he are doing fantastically   i am so proud of and happy for you both keep up the great work, post photos when you can and definitely keep in touch    
 yes!!! you're doing great.  as i'm finding out this week... patience is everything with these shy kitties.   
 @savannah78754 this is awesome!!! i'm so excited for you two! what a great update.  he's so beautiful!!!  
 such great news. it is such a wonderful feeling when they show us their trust. we let gypsy call the shots. she won't cuddle unless she wants to be cuddled. but when she wants it, she loves to be stroked all over.   
 that's awesome progress! it's so heartwarming to read how you've given this guy another chance. i love his little white paw, so cute.  i'm also currently socializing my newly adopted rescue kitty (similar personality--semi-feral, quite skittish of people but totally non-aggressive), so i resonate 100% and i'm sending my best good-luck vibes to you! it's so rewarding when they start to trust you, even in tiny ways. my girl wasn't able to be touched for the whole year she spent at the shelter, but already, after only two weeks of being home, i'm now able to gently pet her while she eats treats. it's the best feeling in the world!  
 hey everyone, sorry for such a delayed response. i don't get emails or notifications of any sort for this website and i completely forgot that i had a thread on here, so pardon my absence.  i have a very long and emotional story for you all today, and i hope you read with an open mind and understand my choices. simba started to come out a lot more and say hi, and groom himself out in the open of my dorm. he took little naps on the floor with his belly showing, and always meowed at me to get him food when it was around that time ( he had never meowed until about 2-3 weeks ago so it was very alarming the first time he did it). about a week ago he began to sleep in my bed with me at the foot of it, and wasn't very bothered by me tossing and turning at night. he woke up with me and would give me a cute meow saying he was hungry already.  he started to hide in my closet during the day on my shelf ( not even sure how he got up so high but this was his new favorite spot) and just 4 days ago, i tried my luck and attempted to pet him. he hissed, but did not run away and did not swat at me, and i successfully pet him for about 5 minutes! you could tell he didn't really like it, but i was just happy to pet him for the little amount of time i did. since he is a foster i was keeping the shelter up to date on everything and nobody believed me! it was a miracle that this "terrible cat" is trusting someone. lots of very happy news with him, but unfortunately there is sad news as well. i have chosen to not go to school again next semester, which means that i do not have anywhere to stay, and will have to move back home ( i live in dorms down here, and do not make enough with my part time job to even consider an apartment ). i've been communicating with the shelter every single day about what we will do with simba, and i wouldn't leave him there with them under any circumstances unless we had a plan for him that i agreed on. he is a very special, and trusting cat and i want to make sure he never stays in a shelter again for 2 months. we decided on letting another woman foster him, who specializes in taking problem cats, and he will be with her next week. he currently is at the shelter which breaks my heart, but i have visited every single day to say hi to him and pet him, which he allows me to do now. we gave him some flea medication, and i made sure to tell everyone at the shelter to please pet him and give him love, so that this shelter experience will be different than the last. hopefully only a few more days in there but i know it is very disheartening for him, considering he allowed me to pet him for 45 minutes straight the day i dropped him off without even hissing or growling.   so this may be the end of my story with simba, but his story is only going to get better from here! i couldn't take back my original decision to take him home with me for the world and i am so happy i got to see him come out of his shell so much over the short time i did have him. thank you all for your kind words and your suggestions, it has helped me a lot  
 can you trap the male and get him neutered?  
 i have 7 cats here and never ask anyone to bring in a cat. cats can be territorial and so i think it's best to let them be in a home.  purrs pook  
 she's eaten a little today. seems to be after i play with her a little bit. i left her alone, went off to the bedroom. about an hour ago she came into the room, jumped into the bed, walked around a bit, then tapped me on the arm. when i finally looked at her, because i was trying to ignore her, she licked my face. does that mean she forgives me?  i can't take her to the vet. i made an appointment for her, and my boyfriend flipped the **** out, and we've been fighting all day.  
 i'm not sure how much she's eaten  
 this is really not the right attitude to have as a cat owner. keep the cat carrier out and open. put a comfy blanket in there, food, treats, toys, make it a happy place so it isn't so scary when she goes to the vet. this is a very easy thing to do to help her. pick up some feliway spray to spray in there too.   your boyfriend had 11 cats thats fine but if he never took them to the vet until he saw something wrong those cats were sick a long time and possibly suffering even.   
 few cats enjoy visiting the vet. you just have to be the big boss and put the cat into the carrier and take her to the vet. the constant meowing is annoying but you just have to up with it on the way to the vet. most cats quiet down for the ride home. you can try wiping down the inside of the carrier with feliway to help keep the cat calm.  or look into a mobile vet who does house calls. you'll have to put your cat into a room maybe 15 minutes or so before the appointment so you and the vet aren't wasting time trying to find the cat hidden somewhere in the house.    cat treats are not meals. they are cookies, potato chips, pretzles, etc not a healthy square meal. the package feeding instructions     it does say main meal but i take that as one meal of the day, not the only source of food the cat gets every single day, week after week. the whiskas dry food referenced is a pretty poor quality food no better than the treats themselves. and a 1/4 cup of dry food isn't even enough food daily for a cat.  take feeding instructions with a grain of salt. they are often inaccurate and even harmful. if a package of cookies says that the entire package can replace a meal and has vitamins and minerals, would you let a child eat the whole package for dinner? most likely not.   
 cats don't stop eating out of anger. if a cat stops eating, they need to go to the vet. there is not any other option. not eating for 72 hours indicates a lot of potentially deadly issues, including blockages, among other things. there's a chance it's nothing, but if it's something and you keep waiting, you could wind up waiting until it's too late. $80 dollars to find out nothing is wrong is better than 1000 dollars for a surgery due to something that progressed too far along.  if you are worried about finances, you can get loans specifically for vet care (not from the vet, but from loan companies). you can also see if there is a low-income charity vet in your area (they give discounts to anyone who is low income; a lot of shelter vets have programs like this). the last option is to give her to a shelter. it's not ideal but it's better than not getting care.  
 if she has begun to eat again and is getting over the stress of the invasion, i understand why you hesitate putting her through more stress. with one cat it will be easier to keep track of her eating.   make up a chart like this so you have a sense if she is eating enough now. take it with you to the vet.   
 i have heard people say that they use temptations as food. but i think the confusion lays in the fact that their products say "100% complete and balanced" and "provide all the right nutrients for your cat in the amounts he needs" but their website very clearly says that it should never be used as a meal replacement and should only suppliment their regular cat food. very misleading to the unknowing cat owner.   
 yup, @furballsmom got here first with the articles i was thinking of! and i agree...those beans are to die for!  
 thank you! those are very helpful. i haven't thought of calming products. i've tried a spray in the past that did not work, but maybe it was just cheap. rue has now taken up watching under my door at night to wait for beckie.  i'm pretty sure rue is very smart! just... sheltered. she's very naive. i haven't found the magic touch to connect with her yet. my other cats all have the trigger that makes them listen. those things just makes rue angry, like she doesn't understand being put in her place. beck seems to understand, she just can't unfocus enough to care.   i'll read through the links and see if i can figure this out. all nine of my cats and my two cockatiels are rescues. heck, i tried to save the baby field mouse socks brought home. i refuse to give up now.  
 hmm....i would start with rue, as it sounds like she has no confidence to claim personal space in the presence of other cats. given her history, and biting problems, i'm guessing she never really learned how to socialize with other cats. so start from the basics...use interactive toys to get her to focus, hunt, and kill. let her instincts guide her.  and given that beck is overweight, i'd do the same with her. get her focused, get her to run, and climb.  once you can get them to focus on a toy individually, then hopefully you can get them in the same room together, but still be focused on the toy.  
 i also have nine cats! we live in a small-ish house but have plenty of space for them. we also occasionally foster.   firstly, i want to say that i do not recommend spraying your cats with water as a punishment/behavior modification. while it does often technically work, it also creates a great deal of stress and can make your cats distrustful. that in itself can cause major issues. if you want to reduce stress, put away the bottles and never use them again.   secondly, i agree with @furballsmom that a good calming spray or plug-in can be helpful. i keep a couple of brands on hand since some work better with some cats and others, others.   i also agree with @jcat that it seems logical to let rue be in her safe space and come out when she wants. she reminds me a bit of our cat freya. it took her two years to interact positively with our other cats (we had six at the time) and is still a bit standoff-ish. she is particularly fond of two of the other cats now and actually plays with them and licks them.   she also reminds me of our astrid because she lacks confidence. play, positive reinforcement, and giving her options for safe havens if and when she needs them has caused a huge improvement over the years. she still has confidence issues, but she is so much better than before.   you could consider re-introducing the cats.   beck reminds me of our tara in that she hyper-focuses and is a known stalker. she used to hunt astrid down and attack her multiple times a day. what was hard to understand at first is that, even though tara acted out as a bully, she was terrified all the time and was lashing out at the weakest cat. she needed a distraction, calming, and an outlet for her energy.   at first, to redirect her focus, we would click our fingers and physically move her. usually, that meant we held her and pet her until she lost interest in whatever had her focus (usually astrid). we would say her name, click, and then pick her up. after a while, she started turning her head a bit when i said her name and clicked, showing that she understood i wanted her attention and that i was coming to get her. several months later, she started coming to me when i did the name/click. about 80% of the time now, i just have to click and point next to me and tara will come and want to be pet. the other 20% of the time, i have to click several times before she unfocuses. on very rare occasions, i will have to go over to her and say her name in a stern voice.   she does chase and semi-stalk the other cats (read that as astrid), but her behavior is different than when she is in attack mode.   i do the same thing for our fennimore. he is our big boy (16 lbs, roughly) and believes that he is the boss of the house. about once a week, he will do a war cry and get into a threatening stance with one of the other cats (typically estella, astrid, freya, or willow). i say his name, click several times, ask him what he is doing, and, if i have to, physically remove him to distract him.   i dislike yelling or raising my voice. i rarely had to raise my voice with my children, and i have not had to do it with my cats. (i will say their names in a slightly raised voice, but it is attention-getting, not angry or threatening.)  
 i actually own the nature's miracle spray. i hadn't thought of that for some reason. it's been sitting in my closet untouched after an - unsuccessful - attempt to get socks (my female) to stop spraying walls. it doesn't work on my other cats, but rue isn't like other cats. if that doesn't settle things i will try some of the others.  after thinking about it, i'm thinking i need to attack it from the angle of rue instead of beckie. beckie responds to having someone stand up to her, but also ignore her. pretty much saying "i know you're there but i can't be bothered." that's how i got her to leave my other cats alone. i'm thinking if i can convince rue to leave beck alone, beck will lose interest. at least, that's my current theory.   scent swapping went... not well. last night was okay. beck apparently just went back to bed on it last night. i decided to spend some time with beckie, giving her new things to do and hopefully building her confidence to the point where she doesn't feel the need to hurt rue. i spent about 30 minutes in "her" room, playing with her, talking to her, and petting her. just building up a bond again. i spent a lot of time laying on the floor at her level since she kept walking around in a nervous manor.  apparently this meant i stank of beckie. i didn't think of that when i picked rue up from the upstairs cat tree to bring her downstairs. she complained the entire way, moaning and yeowling. she didn't bite me or claw me, but she was vocal about it.  she was tense enough that i didn't dare pick her off my shoulder (rue has no clue how to be held) so i let her climb off my back onto her cat tree. she turned around and squeaked like she does for love. she was insta friendly again. i reached to brush her face like she was asking.... and she bit me. not hard, mind you. but a warning shot. as soon as i pulled my hand away she was loving again. i carefully put my hand towards her to sniff, since she wanted more pets. again she bit me. again she went back to insta love.  i tried a few different ways to approach her, just seeing what was most comfortable for her. no go. as soon as she smells beck the fangs come out. she rubbed her cheek on everything to get her scent on it, so i left her alone to do computer work, as is our routine. as soon as i did that she brought a toy for me and it was insta love again, until she got close. she bit my nose, when she was the one who rubbed against me. i was ignoring her.   it's interesting that when i introduce rue's smell to beckie, beckie ignores it and goes back to bed. i was curious and brought beckie a collar rue wore about a week ago before they destroyed it. i figured the scent must be strong on it. again beckie didn't care. but when i brought something that smelled lightly of beckie to rue, she went demon cat until the scent left her nose.   we're going to try being more careful with rue, and trying some calming sprays. for now she doesn't leave my sight so i can babysit her. she just thinks it means more attention for her.  i'm very glad i asked on this site, since for some weird reason it never even crossed my mind that it's rue being clueless. i feel very stupid now, since i rescued a cat who had no cat skills before. she does seem to be lacking a lot of 'normal' cat skills. she is very good at screaming loud and running, though.   maybe if i attack it from rue's perspective i'll make more progress. rue is a very, very sweet cat. she deserves love.    becca on a cat tree i was chopping up to toss.      rue being her usual cross-eyed self.   
 wow, what a crew you have, and challenges, and bless your heart for hanging in there!! i'm sending lots of good, calming thoughts your way!!  
 aw, thanks! all nine of mine are unexpected rescues, who all come with their own little pile of problems. besides socks, and clyde - sort of - i've never gone out of my way to find them. they've just kind of shown up. my mom told me after six that we are not adopting more. the 9th cat was her fault. *shrugs*    beckie has decided to finally act out against rue today. rue prefers to live in my room in the basement. i have a window well since i'm in the basement, and i put a cat tree in front of the window. beckie has now taken up eating the grass right outside the window well, right where rue can see her. she's done this in the past, but mostly got over it. in order for me to chase her off i have to go all through the basement, through the upstairs, and clear across the yard. by the time i do that beck is gone.   so today i bought chicken wire. i've fenced off my window for rue. beckie now stands on the other side of the chicken wire glaring. i've decided to use it as a training for rue. when rue locks on beckie out the window, i pull out toys for rue and distract her until beckie leaves. i make sure to praise rue and give her treats.   she also has a few of beckie's favorite blankets in the room, which means she sometimes forgets herself and jumps onto one to play. it angers her for a minute, but then she goes back to her toy. it seems rue is easily distracted. on that front i'm already making progress, i think.   instead of treating them as the same problem i'm treating them as two separate problems that happen to overlap. it seems to be helping. my goal is to be able to have beckie in the same room as rue without beckie freezing and staring. i'm okay if they still hate each other, but stalking is a no no. it's weird, especially when she does it without the intent to attack.   
 to keep them separate i'm either locking rue in my room, or closing the basement door at night so she can pee. the problem i'm having now is that beckie can hide/run too fast for me to catch her. i drew a very quick map of my house so you can see the problem areas.      this is the basement where rue lives. (green squares are doors) beckie likes to hide under the two pianos we have down there, or the organ which i forgot to put in. they're places you can't really see her. the main problem down there is where my food dish is located.... it's right outside my room. i have it there as kira used to live in my room, and it being upstairs terrifies him too much. it's the only place i can put it, really. believe me, i've tried to move it.  rue prefers to stay in my room, or the connecting bathroom. she also goes into the storage room where i have the cat's litterboxes, and the laundry room. non of the other cats go there (they all pee outside in my garden) i do have a door at the basement steps, but if i block off the basement it stresses out kira as that's his living area as well. he sleeps on the piano, or by the star that says where rue hides. i also have a giant cat tree down there wolfie sleeps on. so while i can close it off, it takes away half the cat's living spaces and stresses them out, causing even more fights.  it's also my crafting/gaming room, so there's a lot of... stuff? on the floor for beckie to hide behind. in the time it takes me to get to the piano, she's already gone up the stairs. she loves to scare rue into the storage room. rue now won't go through the hallway into my room. she will only go through the bathroom to the storage room/laundry room to avoid the cats.      this is my upstairs, where i also have problems. rue loves the window in the living room, and loves to go on the porch. if she's really brave she sneaks up to sit on them. she's comfortable in the living room, mostly. beckie sits in the hallway, blocking off the escape route. but she sits in a way that you can't see her. she just stares.  the problem is the bottleneck in the kitchen, getting past the bar. rue isn't brave enough, even though there's no cats there.   if i yell at beckie, or try to catch her, she runs into my brother's/her room and hides under a bed. two minutes later she's back. i can't close that off since my brother is in there a lot, and we can't isolate him due to autism. beckie is also fantastic at running out the back door, which rue is too scared to use. the kitchen terrifies her.   you can also see roughly where my window is outside, and how i have to run all through the house to get to it. by then beckie is long gone. i could put blinds in, i suppose, but i get so little light as it is. (i've grown up on a second story floor with a window facing the sun. now i'm in the basement with my room facing away from the sun. sigh)    i'm not really sure how to block them off in a way that doesn't stress out my other cats, while giving rue a little freedom. the way it works now is she stays in my room until about 5, then i bring her up to the cat tree until about 10pm. she then gets tucked back into my room for the night. around 7am or so i lock the cats out of the basement using the stair door, giving rue time to pee/roam a bit. then about 10am she has to go back into my room.   it's frustrating since now there's a bottleneck at the base of the stairs, and blackie/fiddle end up attacking each other as well. it's stressing out kira, to the point where he stays outside if he can. i have to babysit him downstairs so his confidence isn't shot.   normally socks stays in the garage, wolfie stays on the downstairs cat tree, kira sleeps on the piano/couch downstairs, fiddle sleeps... everywhere. mostly with kira. becca should be in my brother's room. blackie sleeps ... huh. i'm not sure. clyde hangs out in the living room and my sister's room. spoon has a box she sleeps in on top of the kitchen cabinets, and i'm sure i'm missing one.   putting becca in the basement just messes up everything. i'm not sure where to put the calming spray since the problem is so wide spread! i'm thinking by the pianos, and one in my room. if it helps i'll put another by the cat trees.   right now i'm keeping them from even seeing each other, as the sight stresses out rue too much, and makes becca furious.  
 is it possible that it is the scope of attention and play time you allot to the one cat that makes her the target of the other cat? the heart is big but perhaps you are spread too thin and the cats resent the favorites.these behaviors have a goal and perhaps if cat x is too much of a problem then cat y thinks they can move them on by messing up the works. i'm envious of the amt of attention you can give to cats. i think this reintroduction idea has merit. what i really meant to say mostly was that any bite ( to the bone you said)   is one bite too many. any bite not left in play confusion is a deal breaker. sometimes i get the feeling when feeding stray cats that they view me as this functional white mammal that lives to feed them.  a bite from dog or cat isn't just a sign. its a deal breaker. we are the humans. cats biting not out of panic or self defense..would you let another human get away with that? just saying.  
 i don't *think* it's the amount of attention either one gets. becca has always been a background cat by choice. she gets loved silly by my brother. for the last year i've been doing intense rehab work with clyde, which i would assume would make her act up more. she's also been around while i did rehab with kira, and the two years i spent obsessed with socks. i guess she's never been 'my' cat, but my brother's. she seems to prefer it that way. not saying that can't be the case, but i think it would be unlikely.    with some cats it can be a problem, but with mine i've found it's just them being scared. i have a scar on my wrist from an adorable stray tom cat (well, 'stray'. he had a home, he just preferred mine) i was taking home to get fixed. it's the only time he's ever bit anyone, and that was because i was carrying him out of his 'safe' area. i've also been bitten by kira, who is the most gentle animal i could ever have. he has high anxiety, and his fight or flight response is horrible. i'm the only one he bites, he just nips at my brother. i make sure to warn people to stay away if they start acting aggressive. the signs are pretty clear when you know what to watch for.   i'd hold a human very much more accountable than a cat - a human i can talk to and explain why that's a no-no. with my cat they're responding purely on instinct, or being scared. i've actually learned to love the - many - scars i've gotten over the years from cat bites/scratches. it means that i was helping them.  kira hasn't had a down to the bone bite in over a year, and only nips now when he's really scared. rue only bit me down to the bone when she was terrified as well. i think if you can learn how to 'speak cat' and communicate with them, biting isn't so bad if you can retrain it. kira still tends to slip and grab my hand in a death grip. when he does that i say "kira sweetie" in a very specific - firm but very loving - tone and he drops my hand right away.  i'd never count a cat out for the count for a bite, unless it was perfectly clear they meant it in anger and wouldn't stop. mine only do it out of fear, which i understand. luckily for me, i've never had an infected wound before. (i've no idea how...)   as for why i get to work with them so much... my parents had a less than perfect marriage (i grew up really poor/he had an addiction issue so lots of fighting.) between always having a utility shut off, the stress in the house, not having any friends, etc, i learned to love my cat as my friend. they've helped me with my ptsd/ocd/adhd/anxiety, given me something to live for, and just been there in my time of need. as a result i want to go into animal rehab professionally. i figure if i start with mine it'll work out.  i also can't work, so i have a ton of free time to dedicate to the little monsters.   ps. please don't think i'm attacking you, i'm truly not! i just love my furry friends and see what they can become.  ---------------------    danteshuman said: ↑  1) your cat (?beck?) who is not grooming herself is severely stressed or depressed. i would take her to the vet and try prozac or something else.click to expand...  a vet trip is for sure on my to do list. she also has horrible chine acne. it bleeds if you scratch her chin gently with a nail. i have a 28 year old cockatiel i have to put down sometime this month, which has to take priority. as soon as that's done and i get the money she's going in for her weight anyway.      danteshuman said: ↑  2) rue i think maybe they used soft caps on her instead of clipping them a lot? her best bet to learn to use her claws is from learning from a cat buddy. i would try to pair her up with a buddy if you see one she gravitates to. if so, keep her buddy in her room when she is locked up.click to expand...  the lady gave me claw clippers and said they clipped her weekly. i'm thinking maybe they clipped them too short, causing pain if rue scratched? she seems to be picking it up okay. she tolerates clyde, but he's 19 and doesn't move much. i may start tucking them in the same room at night to see how they handle it. and i really miss having clyde on my bed. she also tolerates socks, mostly because socks has an attitude so large you wouldn't dare touch her. (she's never won a fight though) i may start with those two together as well. i'll have to see who she likes and see if they can be friends! wolfie would be good if she can handle him.      danteshuman said: ↑  3) i would give rue run of the house/outside if they go outside for half of the day. keep beck in her room while rue runs free. put her scratchers and beds outside of her room to expand her territory. hopefully they will learn their new schedules.click to expand...  she loves her little pipe cleaners and fuzzy balls. maybe i'll start putting them in the basement instead of my room to get her out of her comfort zone! i've also taken up giving her tuna out in the main room vs my bedroom. if the cats are in the center of the room she doesn't mind if she's off to the side to eat. same thing with catnip. tonight we had progress, she sat on the piano and watched the cats under her.   we're working on cutting off the bottlenecks. the biggest problem is socks, believe it or not. if i make something she 'happens' to go by and 'happens' to sit on it like it's hers and has been for years. and then when you take her down she grumps, snarls, and goes right back up as soon as you leave the room to clean her 'drumsticks'. she's entitled. very, very entitled.    -----------------------   in other news, we had progress tonight!! i know this post is already massively long, so i apologize in advance. but i'm proud of rue! she was on the upstairs cat tree, and i managed to play with her while my brother played with three cats right under her. she kept looking, but then i could distract her. if i moved the pipe cleaner in view of the other cats she got focused, so i'd gently call her and put her toy in her face. we played for 15 minutes before she barfed on me. (whenever she's around my other cats she develops a cold?? what? non of my other cats are sick.)  i took a quick video of becca tonight. (ignore my carpet. we're renovating and gave up carpet cleaning until we're done) this is her before her sister showed up.you can see she's comfortable and let's me pet her without trouble. you can also see how stiff her fur is, and how dirty her eyes are. this is her a minute later when blackie came in. instant attitude change. she no longer lets me touch her face, and holds herself lower to the ground.   i feel bad now. once you guys pointed it out i was like "duh!!! of course she needs help!!!" but i was missing it somehow. ugh.   they're still on scent swap, which makes them hate each other. i'm trying to figure out a way to do it that doesn't stress them out too much. i'm thinking toys so far.     if it takes me a year to sort this out until i move out, i will. if i can dedicate an entire year to doing nothing but making my 19 year old cat walk up the stairs once a day, and across a room twice a day (muscle tone was lacking) i can dedicate an hour a day to figuring these two monsters out. bloodshed is a no-no in my house. i'm planning my wedding (ever plan an entire wedding in two months? don't.) so all my anxiety is getting taken out on mothering these two into shape. i'm not smothering them, but they're getting help. becca isn't sure what to think. i think she's honestly terrified.   
 i didn't realize how old rue is. it might be worth checking to see if she has arthritis .... that could make her not want to scratch. i really think her watching you praise a buddy cat as they use a scratcher will help. sometimes another cat teaches a cat how to interact with humans better then their new adopted family can ever hope to do.   i'm sorry about your cocktail.   i know about stretched finiances. i'm on ssdi and 2 cats is my max limmit. if i could i would only have one cat but i had 2 cats before i went on disability. there is an article on this site about how to get emergency vet care if you lack the funds. (i'm on my cell or i would link it.)  
 yes, yes, and yes! you really have to put the time in, your suppose to keep them separated while they don't get along. you have to be the one to socialize them. i am having difficulty with my feral and it can take a long time. i think you just need a little work, doesn't sound too bad, at least they are not fighting. there are articles here somewhere on how to socialize cats also on the jackson galaxy website  
 thank you so much for the reassurance, artnj. that really puts my mind at ease! and you are spot on about the separation causing the new kitty to be more antsy and riled up. i have definitely noticed that, which is part of the reason i have been trying to allow long-ish supervised interactions where both cats are free to roam the house (under my watchful eye  lol). having never done this before, i just was really worried that maybe i was rushing things or allowing negative associations to develop.  
